If you stand at the southwest corner of 40th and Chestnut in Philadelphia, this is what you'll see:

Inside, it looks like this:

(As usual, all photos are embiggenable)
This is probably the most gaily, yet tastefully, painted Chinese restaurant I've ever beheld.  But the decoration is not due to the current owners, who have been at this location for about five years and acquired the premises when it already looked like this.  Somehow, I feel like the decor of West Philly's Xi'an Sizzling Woks (the Chinese name is Xī'ān měishí 西安美食 ["Xi'an fine cuisine"]) echoes Muslim restaurants I've seen in Central Asia (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan), home to Dungans, who actually hail from the Xi'an area a century and more ago (see "Selected readings").
There's also a branch of Xi'an Sizzling Woks in Chinatown at 902 Arch St., but it is smaller and more nondescript than the one in University City that I'm describing in this post, and I get the impression that most of its business is takeout and delivery.
Xi'an ("Western Peace"), the capital of Shaanxi Province, is one of China's great cities.  In terms of medieval and early history, including the prehistoric period, overall it is probably the most important city.  Located at the confluence of the Yellow and Wei rivers, the traditional name of the city was Chang'an 長安 / 长安 (Cháng'ān ["Lasting Peace"]):
The site had been settled since Neolithic times, during which the Yangshao culture was established in Banpo, in the city's suburbs. Furthermore, in the northern vicinity of modern Xi'an, Qin Shi Huang of the Qin dynasty, China's first emperor, held his imperial court, and constructed his massive mausoleum guarded by the Terracotta Army.
(source)
It has always been my view that the location of Chang'an / Xi'an made it of extraordinary geostrategic and cultural significance because it lay at the eastern end of the Gansu / Hexi Corridor, thus it was the terminus of the Jade / Silk / Glass / Spice / Fur / etc. Road stretching across the middle of Eurasia, and at the bottom of the Ordos, the omphalos of eastern Central Asia and East Asia, hence the Bronze, Wheat, Horse, and Chariot Road extending across the vast steppe to the north.
A little tutorial on the spelling of Xi'an, Chang'an, and Shaanxi
The apostrophe in Xi'an and Chang'an signals where to separate the syllables.  Without them, the former would be pronounced as a single syllable (Xian [ɕian]) and the latter as "Chan-gan", not "Chang-an").  The double "a" in Shaanxi indicates the third tone in the first syllable, a relic of tonal spelling (Gwoyeu Romatzyh / GR / National Romanization).  This distinguishes it from the neighboring province of Shanxi (Shǎnxī 陕西 vs. Shānxī 山西).
The menu


We've often mentioned "biangbiang" noodles on Language Log (see "Selected readings").  There are many variations for how to write the character for biang.  Suffice it to say that it is one of the most complex Sinographs, with between 42 (simplified) and 70 (traditional) strokes, depending upon how you choose to write it.  If you want to see what it looks like, go here or here.  Although the traditional and simplified forms of the character for biang have been entered in Unicode, few conventional fonts have them.  Hence they are essentially untypable.
Listed under the "Noodle Soups" (tāngmiàn 湯麵) section of the menu, #3 is niú/yángròu huì miàn 牛／羊肉燴麵 ("beef / lamb braised noodles"), but the English is given as "Biang Biang Noodles in Lamb & Beef Soup".  Thus we see that, for lack of a vast enough font, they had to forego that famous Sinograph for biang. The same thing happens for a couple of other entries on the menu, where the full monty Sinograph for biang is missing and replaced by a circumlocution or variant name, e.g., yóupō chěmiàn 油泼扯面 ("oil splashed pulled noodles").  In a sense, this ironically makes the English more accurate than the written Chinese in conveying the quintessence of this inimitable dish.

To tell the truth, I didn't know quite what to expect when the biangbiang noodles were served up to me, so I approached them with a combination of excitement and trepidation.  On the one hand, they looked rather plain, without any touch of panache.  On the other hand, I was astonished by how broad and long the biangbiang noodles were, like a belt, as the Xi'an locals say.  Summoning up the courage to clasp one with my chopsticks, I slurped it up and… and… fell madly in love with it at once.  Slippery and al dente at the same time, the biangbiang noodle slid across my tongue and down my gullet, exuding glutinous glory all the way.
What an evocative flavor!  I was mystified by how such a wide, subtly spiced strip of drawn dough could be so utterly, hauntingly palatable.
Another dish demonstrating the mastery of farinacious culinary skills may be found under "Appetizers" (tóutái 頭臺), #3 is ròu jiā mó (lǔròu / ròu sàozi 肉夾饃（滷肉／肉臊子) ("small bits / pieces / chunks of meat pressed [inside the two halves of a bun]"), the parenthetical part of which they translate accurately as (Choice of Braised Pork or Spicy Minced Pork"), but they also provide the fanciful translation as "Chinese hamburgers".  A restaurant in London calls them "murgers" (see the second item under "Selected readings").
The bread is ineffably delicious — I savored it as though it were manna from heaven.  This "Chinese hamburger" bun is the closest thing I've ever found to the unleavened bread I had as a little boy at the Church of the Brethren (cf. Central Asian Islamic bread described in Paul D. Buell, E. N. Anderson, Montserrat de Pablo Moya, and Moldir Oskenbay, Crossroads of Cuisine:  The Eurasian Heartland, the Silk Roads and Food [Leiden: Brill, 2020]).
Notes by Zihan Guo
The folk mnemonics of the word biang, listed on Wikipedia (Chinese version; also in the English version are very impressive. Both the Chinese and the English versions of the Wikipedia Biangbiang noodles article have animated GIFs showing the stroke order of the traditional character for biáng. The GIF in the English version specifies that it is according to the folk mnemonics, not according to the canonical principles of stroke order
The menu turns out to be very interesting too. They seem to have increased the price of many dishes by $1. On the noodles page, the numbers on the pictures do not match the actual dishes. The third picture is supposed to be biangbiangmian, but its number says 11 not 14. There are actually three dishes labeled biangbiangmian (noodles 3, 7, 14), but it is not self-evident from their Chinese names. Maybe only local Xi'anese would be able to discern them. I wonder how guests with no knowledge of Chinese would think of the dish without the right picture. Maybe the curious name itself is enough for them to venture into. I was also surprised that they simply left liángpí 涼皮 (appetizer 1 & 2), a most classic Xi'an dish, as liang pi, which gives no hint of what it is. I am not sure if its name has become so intelligible, as lo mein (noodles 24), to not merit a translation (that is not difficult either – cold rice noodles). Also, "special" seems to be a panacea for translating exotic culinary terms. The restaurant probably only has Chinese customers anyway.
Despite all the quirks, the layout of the menu seems carefully designed. Appetizers are followed by desserts, which are usually placed at the end. It is also reasonable, since zhǔshí 主食* (noodle soup, noodles, rice) can then be put together on one page. Each part fits neatly and perfectly on two pages. I was reminded of how the waitress served the dessert first without being conscious of the order. Chinese do not seem to have the concept of dessert to clear the table. Those listed as desserts are more like side dishes. In a typical Chinese restaurant in China, you would be served fruits at the end of a meal. Maybe Chinese consume too much carbohydrates to still thirst for sweets.
[*VHM:  "staple, principal / main food"]
I wonder why Xī'ān měishí 西安美食 ("Xi'an fine cuisine") uses the English name Xi'an Sizzling Woks, which brings to mind málà xiāng guō 麻辣香鍋** instead, though "woks" is indeed evocative of traditional Chinese cuisine.
[**VHM:  "peppery and spicy hot pot"]
Bottom line
I want to try everything — all entries look so tempting and mouth-watering.  Can't wait to go back again.
Severely selected readings
Biang

"A Chinese character that is harder to write than 'biang'" (7/30/20)
"Murgers and biangbiang in London" (8/17/19)
"Stroke order" (10/30/18)
"Writing Chinese characters as a form of punishment" (11/1/15)
"The Awful Chinese Writing System" (Lingua Franca, 1/20/16)
Wikipedia article
"Peace and Harmony" (10/16/10)

Dungan

"Dungan, a Sinitic language of Central Asia written in the Cyrillic Alphabet" (6/14/21)
"Dungan: a Sinitic language written with the Cyrillic alphabet" (4/20/13)
"The look, feel, and sound of Dungan language" (10/15/20)
"'Jesus' in Dungan" (7/16/14)
"Dungan-English dictionary" (10/26/18) — online here
Victor H. Mair, "Implications of the Soviet Dungan Script for Chinese Language Reform", Sino-Platonic Papers, 18 (May, 1990) (free pdf).
Omniglot
Wikipedia:  "Dungan people", "Dungan language"

Chang'an / Xi'an, plus Ordos and Gansu / Hexi Corridor

"Sogdians and Xiongnu / Huns" (2/21/22)
"An early fourth century AD historical puzzle involving a Caucasian people in North China" (1/25/19)
"Genetic evidence for the peopling of Eastern Central Asia during the Bronze Age and Early Iron Age" (4/9/21)
"Acquiring literacy in medieval Dunhuang" (2/20/21)
"China and Rome" (2/24/19)
Victor H. Mair, "The North(west)ern Peoples and the Recurrent Origins of the 'Chinese' State", in Joshua A. Fogel, The Teleology of the Modern Nation-State:  Japan and China (Philadelphia:  University of Pennsylvania Press, 2005), pp. 46-84.
"slip(per)" (7/22/14) — especially this comment on the name "Dunhuang".
Victor Mair, "Reflections on the Origins of the Modern Standard Mandarin Place-Name 'Dunhuang' — With an Added Note on the Identity of the Modern Uighur Place-Name 'Turpan'", in Li Zheng, et al., eds., Ji Xianlin Jiaoshou bashi huadan jinian lunwenji (Papers in Honour of Prof. Dr. Ji Xianlin on the Occasion of His 80th Birthday) (Nanchang: Jiangxi People's Press, 1991), vol. 2, pp. 901-954 (very long and detailed study).
Victor H. Mair, "Lay Students and the Making of Written Vernacular Narrative: An Inventory of Tun-huang Manuscripts", Chinoperl Papers 10 (1981), 5–96.

Noodles and bread

"Pulled noodles: Uyghur läghmän and Mandarin lāmiàn" (8/8/14)
"Progress in the war on Chinglish" (12/3/17)
"FOOD & BGVERAGGS, with a focus on naan / nang" (2/12/16)

Pots and woks

"Pork in a pot" (2/23/21)
"Shifting valences of 'throwing the pot' in Chinese" (5/14/20)
"Don't Kettle" (11/4/10)
"Me Old China" (1/18/13) — and don't miss the comments
"What's the History of the Wok? A Continuing Investigation", by Rachel Laudan (1/20/13)
"Hong Kong’s fascination with ghosts and woks shows Cantonese can be a lot more subtle than we think", by Luisa Tam, SCMP (2/29/20)
"The words can be used in a dazzling array of combinations that allow humour to take the sting out of rudeness, and ‘gwei’, or ghost, is not always negative. It would not be an exaggeration to say that a wok is as essential a cookware in Chinese culture as it is in daily local conversations."
According to a recent press release ("Scientists Have Established a Key Biological Difference Between Psychopaths and Normal People"),
Neuroscientists using MRI scans discovered that psychopathic people have a 10% larger striatum, a cluster of neurons in the subcortical basal ganglia of the forebrain, than regular people. This represents a clear biological distinction between psychopaths and non-psychopathic people.
The journal article (Choy et al., "Larger striatal volume is associated with increased adult psychopathy”) tells us that "Psychopathy was assessed using the PCL-R, which consists of 20 items rated by interviewers on a 3-point scale". (Wikipedia on PCL-R here). And from MRI scans, "segmentation of the caudate, putamen, nucleus accumbens, and globus pallidus was conducted together with the thalamus and cerebellum using standard FreeSurfer parcellation. Total striatal volumes were defined as the sum of the volumes of the four striatal subregions".
The generic plural "psychopaths" suggests a natural kind. And the phrase "a clear biological distinction" suggests well-defined and well-separated clusters of values on both neuro-anatomical and social-psychological dimensions. But what the researchers found was two weakly-correlated variables, each an amalgam of several measurements or evaluations, without any strong indication of clustering. Their Figure 3 (n=108):


So that press release and its mass-media uptake exemplify a cluster of fallacies that needs a name, and (as far as I know) doesn't have one. The key pieces:

Thinking of distributions as points;
Inventing convenient but unreal taxonomic categories;
Forming stereotypes, especially via confirmation bias.

These fallacies are all natural and nearly inevitable aspects of human thought.  And of course I'm not the first person to have noticed the elements of this cluster, or to have observed their interconnections. But does the cluster have a name? It should. Perhaps a commenter will inform us about an established term, but meanwhile I'm going to call it "grouping-think".
And putting aside the obvious cases of racial, ethnic, gender, and other sociological stereotypes, this way of thinking has been endemic in medicine for millennia. This starts because boxing the world up into natural kinds is often a useful path to understanding. And without convenient concepts and tools for dealing with continuous multi-variate distributions, what else are you going to do?
Of course some medical conditions belong in well-defined categories. But many behaviorally-defined disorders are "phenotypically diverse" — and a clinician friend explains that "phenotypically diverse is the Greek translation of 'we have no fucking clue'".
For phenotypically diverse disorders without clear etiology, it's increasingly clear that boxology is a mistake — especially now that we actually do have concepts and tools for dealing with complex and diverse multi-dimensional data.
According to The Hierarchical Taxonomy Of Psychopathology (HiTOP),
Objectives of the Hierarchical Taxonomy of Psychopathology (HiTOP) are to advance the classification of psychopathology to maximize its usefulness for research and clinical practice. The HiTOP aims to address limitations of traditional nosologies, such as the DSM-5 and ICD-10, including arbitrary boundaries between psychopathology and normality, often unclear boundaries between disorders, frequent disorder co-occurrence, heterogeneity within disorders, and diagnostic instability.
The HiTOP approaches these problems by conducting an empirical search for psychopathology structures starting from the most basic building blocks and proceeding to the highest level of generality: combining individual signs and symptoms into homogeneous components or traits, assembling them into empirically-derived syndromes, and finally grouping them into psychopathology spectra (e.g., internalizing and externalizing).
This approach reduces within-disorder heterogeneity by grouping related symptoms together and assigning unrelated symptoms to different components. It makes comorbidity an explicit and predictable feature of the model by classifying related syndromes together. Finally, it describes psychiatric phenomena dimensionally, addressing boundary problems and diagnostic instability. The HiTOP is not limited to dimensions, if evidence indicates existence of a natural boundary, this qualitative distinction will be incorporated in the model also.
And since 2009, NIH has been promoting the Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) initiative:
The RDoC framework provides an organizational structure for research that considers mental health and psychopathology in the context of major domains of basic human neurobehavioral functioning, rather than within established diagnostic categories. The framework currently includes six major functional domains (see figure). Different aspects of each domain are represented by three to six psychological/biological dimensions, or constructs, which are studied along the full range of functioning from normal to abnormal. Both behavioral and biological aspects of functioning change and mature throughout childhood/adolescence and across the life span, and so research on development is essential. Equally important is the study of various aspects of the environment, including the physical environment, cultural components, and factors such as social determinants of health. The RDoC framework encourages researchers to measure and integrate many classes of variables (units of analysis, e.g., behavioral, physiological, and self-report data) in order to seek a comprehensive understanding of the construct(s) under study. 
But these efforts have a long way to go.
A few relevant past posts:
"Gabby guys: the effect size", 9/23/2006
"The Happiness Gap and the rhetoric of statistics", 9/26/2007
"The Pirahã and us", 10/6/2007
"Pop platonism and unrepresentative samples", 7/26/2008
"David Brooks, Social Psychologist", 8/13/2008
"Misleading pseudo-scientific argument of the week", 9/3/2009
"Mandatory treatment for generic plurals", 9/13/2009
"Physiological politics", 2/15/2010
"Icktheology", 2/18/2010
"Generic comparisons", 11/7/2011
"Generic plural nurses", 9/22/2018
"Group differences", 11/18/2018
"Lombroso and Lavater, reborn as fake AI", 10/22/2019
 
 Anne Cutler, our beloved colleague, recently became ill with an opportunistic lung infection shortly after traveling to London for her official induction as a 2020 Fellow of the British Academy. From there she traveled to Nijmegen, where on May 31st she received medical treatment that revealed an underlying leukemia. After just one week in the hospital, with her husband, Bill Sloman, by her side, she died on June 7th. We thank Bill for keeping us apprised of Anne’s condition.
So many of us have vivid and delightful memories of Anne. They are welcome in the comments below, or will be included in posts to follow.
Here is a link to an obituary on the website of the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, where Anne was director from 1993 to 2013.This article, about the grave (and life) of Powell Crosley Jr., reminded me of my graduate school colleague Crosley Shelvador, M.D.
OK, the "M.D." part is fictional, and the "colleague" part might be considered as a misleading way to refer to an elderly but functional refrigerator. For some of the facts, see "Dr. Alfred Crockus and Crosley Shelvador, M.D.", 9/19/2007; "Crosley Shelvador comes in from the cold", 9/20/2007; "Stronzo Bestiale, Galadriel Mirkwood, Crosley Shelvador, …", 10/10/2014.

Anyhow, this post starts a chronological list of scientific pseudonyms — at least those that resulted in one or more real (or at least cited) publications — along with links to the associated stories and Google Scholar's publications and citations. The list is certainly incomplete, and additions via the comments will be welcome.
I'll start with Nicholas Bourbaki, whose works (begun in 1934) were first published in 1939, and are far more serious and influential than those of the other scholarly noms de plume listed here.
Then there's Quang Phúc Đông and Yuck Foo, pseudonyms of James McCawley. Their works were were first circulated in mimeographed form (two of Quang's papers here: "English sentences without overt grammatical subject"; "A note on conjoined noun phrases"), and then included in a 1971 publication, reprinted in 1992: Arnold Zwicky, Peter Salus, Robert Binnick, and Anthony Vanek, eds., Studies out in Left Field: Defamatory essays presented to James D. McCawley on his 33rd or 34th birthday.  As far as I know, Yuck Foo's work appears only in a footnote to one of Quang's papers:

Then we get to Galadriel Mirkwood, an afghan hound who began publishing in 1978.
And then Stronzo Bestiale, whose first publication appeared in 1987 ("Diffusion in a periodic Lorentz gas", Journal of Statistical Physics 48, 709-726), and locates him at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Palermo — which does not seem to exist in this particular instance of the multiverse:

And finally we get back to Crosley Shelvador, whose first publication was a 1996 book review in Language, the journal of the Linguistic Society of America — then edited by Mark Aronoff, another colleague of Crosley's from the 1970s.
 An anonymous contributor was curious what the real and would-be copy-editors who hang around LL might make of the below — which may serve to represent for those unfamiliar what is actually going on within the so-called "Language & Writing" portion of our now-acclaimed, now-derided "Scholastic Aptitude [no wait Assessment] Test".
The anonymous contributor can give the correct answer later if it is not obvious; it was not to him.
SAT question

What do you make of it?
Selected readings

"IELTS: The test that sets the standard?" (7/29/20)
"A reading comprehension test" (6/22/11)
"Collegiate Learning" (2/21/11)
"Test obscenity, taboo avoidance, and prescriptivism" (7/13/08)
"Listeners needed for TTS standards intelligibility test" (11/24/11)
"Ask Language Log: SAT 'Identifying Sentence Errors' questions" (3/31/13)
"Language tests for immigrants in Canada" (7/29/10)
"What is this question about?" (12/2/09)
"The SAT fails a grammar test" (1/31/05) — with a list of relevant posts at the end
"Teaching Zombie Rules" (1/26/09)
"The College Board endorses the passive voice" (5/16/11)
"New York high school Chinese test" (1/18/17)
Called Duānwǔ jié 端午節 / 端午节 in Chinese, this year (2022) it occurred on Friday, June 3.
Below, I will discuss in detail the names, origins, and customs surrounding this widely and exuberantly celebrated festival.  Unfortunately, recently there has been some controversy over how to greet people on this day.  There seems to be a lot of online discussion as to whether
Duānwǔ jié kuàilè端午節快樂"Happy Duanwu Festival!"
or
Duānwǔ jié ānkāng端午節安康"[May your] Duanwu Festival [be filled with] well-being"
is the appropriate greeting for the festival, including debate about the more recent use in China (less so in Taiwan) of the latter.

Some representative angry comments directed at a colleague in Taiwan by China netizens after he wrote the former:
Duānwǔ jié láiyuán shì jìniàn àiguó shīrén Qū Yuán de, suǒyǐ bùnéng shuō kuàilè, wǒmen cháng shuō de shì ānkāng.端午节来源是纪念爱国诗人屈原的，所以不能说快乐，我们常说的是安康。"The origin of the Dragon Boat Festival is to commemorate the patriotic poet Qu Yuan, so we can't say happiness, we often say well-being."
Duānwǔ jié shì huáiniàn sǐwáng zhě, rúguǒ nǐ zài huáiniàn nǐ yǐ gù de qīnrén nǐ huì hǎo kuàilè shì ma?端午节是怀念死亡者，如果你在怀念你已故的亲人你会好快乐是吗？"Dragon Boat Festival is to cherish the dead; if you cherish your deceased relatives, would it be right for you to be happy?"
As one can see, part of this view is because Duanwu is said to revere "nationalist poet" Qū Yuán 屈原 (c. 340 BC – 278 BC).  One wonders if this is a recent trend and / or how much is government driven.
These remarks from a history professor in Guangzhou indicate that the debate over how to greet people on Duanwu Festival have been going on for at least a couple of years:
I read about this controversy around two years ago. I think this view that Duanwu memorializes Qu Yuan might come from certain people who try to defend and revitalize Chinese tradition and boycott foreign influence, similar to boycotting Christmas in China. Apparently “happy / merry XX-Day” is a Western expression, and not from China. In ancient China, there were different ways to express greetings for festivals. But for the Duanwu case, memorializing Qu Yuan is definitely not the only theme for this festival in East Asia. There are many discussions and research on the Duanwu festival, and some places having this festival didn’t use it to commemorate Qu Yuan.
Now, turning to "Duanwu":
The name refers both to the original day of the festival, the first seventh-day (午日) in the fifth lunar month (五月) of the traditional Chinese calendar, and the month itself which was also known from its position in the earthly branch cycle as 午 (wǔ).
端午   (～節) Dragon Boat Festival, which now occurs on the fifth day of the fifth month of the Chinese lunar calendar   [VHM:  hence the English name "Double Fifth"]
(source)
For more detailed explanations of the calendrics and onomastics (including topolectal variants) of the Dragon Boat Festival, see here.
There are various accounts of the origin of the Duanwu Festival.  Here are a few:
The fifth lunar month is considered an unlucky month. People believed that natural disasters and illnesses are common in the fifth month. To get rid of the misfortune, people would put calamus, Artemisia, pomegranate flowers, Chinese ixora and garlic above the doors on the fifth day of the fifth month. Calamus is believed to be able to remove evil spirits because of its sword-like shape and strong garlic smell.
Another explanation to the origin of the Dragon Boat Festival comes from before the Qin Dynasty (221–206 BC). The fifth month of the lunar calendar was regarded as a bad month and the fifth day of the month a bad day. Venomous animals were said to appear starting from the fifth day of the fifth month, such as snakes, centipedes, and scorpions; people also supposedly get sick easily after this day. Therefore, during the Dragon Boat Festival, people try to avoid this bad luck. For example, people may paste pictures of the five poisonous creatures on the wall and stick needles in them. People may also make paper cutouts of the five creatures and wrap them around the wrists of their children. Big ceremonies and performances developed from these practices in many areas, making the Dragon Boat Festival a day for getting rid of disease and bad luck.
The story best known in modern China holds that the festival commemorates the death of the poet and minister Qu Yuan (c. 340–278 BC) of the ancient state of Chu during the Warring States period of the Zhou dynasty. A cadet member of the Chu royal house, Qu served in high offices. However, when the emperor decided to ally with the increasingly powerful state of Qin, Qu was banished for opposing the alliance and even accused of treason. During his exile, Qu Yuan wrote a great deal of poetry. Twenty-eight years later, Qin captured Ying, the Chu capital. In despair, Qu Yuan committed suicide by drowning himself in the Miluo River.
It is said that the local people, who admired him, raced out in their boats to save him, or at least retrieve his body. This is said to have been the origin of dragon boat races. When his body could not be found, they dropped balls of sticky rice into the river so that the fish would eat them instead of Qu Yuan's body. This is said to be the origin of zongzi. [VHM:  see below]
During World War II, Qu Yuan began to be treated in a nationalist way as "China's first patriotic poet". The view of Qu's social idealism and unbending patriotism became canonical under the People's Republic of China after 1949 Communist victory in the Chinese Civil War.
(source)
Note that customs relating to the balefulness of Duanwu / Double Fifth existed independently and prior to remembrance of Qu Yuan's death.  Moreover, Duanwu / Dragon Boat Festival is celebrated in memory of other regional martyrs who died watery deaths, notably Wu Zixu (died 484 BC) — progenitor of the most distinguished lineage of military strategists — and Cao E (130–143 AD) — the daughter of a shaman.  Note that these traditions are observed primarily in the south (especially the southeast).
Some modern research suggests that the stories of Qu Yuan or Wu Zixu were superimposed onto a pre-existing holiday tradition. The promotion of these stories might be encouraged by Confucian scholars, seeking to legitimize and strengthen their influence in China. The relationship between zongzi, Qu Yuan and the festival, first appeared during the early Han dynasty.
The stories of both Qu Yuan and Wu Zixu were recorded in Sima Qian's Shiji, completed 187 and 393 years after the events, respectively, because historians wanted to praise both characters.
Another theory, advanced by Wen Yiduo, is that the Dragon Boat Festival originated from dragon worship. Support is drawn from two key traditions of the festival: the tradition of dragon boat racing and zongzi. The food may have originally represented an offering to the dragon king, while dragon boat racing naturally reflects a reverence for the dragon and the active yang energy associated with it. This was merged with the tradition of visiting friends and family on boats.
Another suggestion is that the festival celebrates a widespread feature of east Asian agrarian societies: the harvest of winter wheat. Offerings were regularly made to deities and spirits at such times: in the ancient Yue, dragon kings; in the ancient Chu, Qu Yuan; in the ancient Wu, Wu Zixu (as a river god); in ancient Korea, mountain gods (see Dano). As interactions between different regions increased, these similar festivals eventually merged into one holiday.
(source)
A key observance of the Duanwu Festival is to make and eat a tetrahedral lump of glutinous rice (often with various fillings) called zòngzi 粽子.  Because we have so many serious foodies on Language Log, and also because of the interesting linguistic properties of the terms for it in the various places where it is popular, I will dedicate the following lengthy section to this treat:
Zongzi ([tsʊ̂ŋ.tsɨ]; Chinese: 粽子), rouzong (Chinese: 肉粽; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: bah-chàng) or simply zong (Cantonese Jyutping: zung2) is a traditional Chinese rice dish made of glutinous rice stuffed with different fillings and wrapped in bamboo leaves (generally of the species Indocalamus tessellatus), or sometimes with reed or other large flat leaves. They are cooked by steaming or boiling. In the Western world, they are also known as rice dumplings or sticky rice dumplings.
As it diffused to other regions of Asia over many centuries, zongzi became known by various names in different languages and cultures, including pya htote in Burmese-speaking areas (such as Myanmar), nom chang in Cambodia, machang in Philippines, bachang in Indonesia, khanom chang in Laos, and ba-chang in Thailand.
Vietnamese cuisine also has a variation on this dish known as bánh ú tro or bánh tro.
In Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, and Taiwan, zongzi is known as bakcang, bacang, or zang (from Hokkien Chinese: 肉粽; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: bah-chàng; lit. 'meat zong', as Hokkien is commonly used among overseas Chinese). Similarly, zongzi is more popularly known as machang among Chinese Filipinos in the Philippines.
Japanese cuisine has leaf-wrapped glutinous rice flour dumplings called chimaki. They may be tetrahedral, square, rectangular, or long narrow conical in shape.
In some areas of the United States, particularly California and Texas, zongzi are often known as Chinese tamales. [!}
In Mauritius, zongzi (typically called zong), is a traditional dish which continues to be eaten by the Sino-Mauritian and by the Overseas Chinese community. It is especially eaten on the Dragon Boat Festival, a traditional festive event, to commemorate the death of Qu Yuan.
What has become established popular belief amongst the Chinese is that zongzi has since the days of yore been a food-offering to commemorate the death of Qu Yuan, a famous poet from the kingdom of Chu who lived during the Warring States period. Known for his patriotism, Qu Yuan tried to counsel his king to no avail, and drowned himself in the Miluo River in 278 BC. The kind-hearted Chinese people in the same era as Qu Yuan were grateful for Qu Yuan's talent and loyalty to serve the country. They cast rice dumplings into the Miluo River on the day when Qu Yuan was thrown into the river every year, hoping that the fish in the river would eat the rice dumplings without harming Qu Yuan's body.
Qu Yuan died in 278 BC, but the earliest known documented association between him and the zong dumplings occurs much later, in the mid 5th century (Shishuo Xinyu Chinese: 世说新语, or A New Account of the Tales of the World). [VHM: NB!] And a widely observed popular cult around him did not develop until the 6th century AD, as far as can be substantiated by evidence. But by the 6th century, sources attest to the offering of zongzi on the Double Fifth Festival (5th day of the 5th month of the lunar calendar) being connected with the figure of Qu Yuan.
As for the origin myth, a fable recounts that the people commemorated the drowning death of Qu Yuan on the Double Fifth day by casting rice stuffed in bamboo tubes; but the practice changed in the early Eastern Han dynasty (1st century AD), when the ghost of Qu Yuan appeared in a dream to a man named Ou Hui (Chinese: 區回, 歐回) and instructed him to seal the rice packet with chinaberry (or Melia) leaves and bind it with colored string, to repel the dragons (jiaolong) that would otherwise consume them. However, this fable is not attested in contemporary (Han Period) literature, and only known to be recorded centuries later in Wu Jun [zh] (呉均; Wu chün, d. 520)'s Xu Qixieji (『續齊諧記』; Hsü-ch'ih-hsieh-chih).
Also, Qu Yuan had (dubiously, by "folklore" or by common belief) become connected with the boat races held on the Double Fifth, datable by another 6th century source. 《荊楚歲時記》(6th c.), under the "Fifth Day of the Fifth Month" heading. Modern media has printed a version of the legend which says that the locals had rushed out in dragonboats to try retrieve his body and threw packets of rice into the river to distract the fish from eating the poet's body.[
(source)
Greetings from Jinyi Cai:
端午节安康！
 
I wrote ānkāng 安康 ("well-being") instead of kuàilè 快乐 ("happy") because this has become the phrase people use nowadays. It is very interesting because I remember clearly it hasn't been that long (probably 4 or 5 years ago?) since people noticed "kuàilè 快乐" is not appropriate for the Duanwu Festival. Because I remember every year people post Duanwu greetings on their WeChat Moments and Weibo, etc. Then someone pointed out that it's Duānwǔ ānkāng 端午安康 instead of Duānwǔ kuàilè 端午快乐. But to be honest, I think people care more about the time of family gathering, celebrating, or having a few days off than about how to greet people. After you pointed it out, I started to think about who first raised this point and why did they do so. It's possible that the government wants to emphasize the historical significance behind the Duanwu festival. But you know, in China somethings / sometimes you just never know.
I hope my reply isn't too late. I am in Shanghai now and just got out of the two months lockdown. Quite an experience!
Greetings from Fredric Ye Tian:
Duānwǔ jié kuàilè 端午节快乐! ("Happy Duanwu Festival!")  I will definitely say "Duānwǔ jié kuàilè 端午节快乐!" To me, using an ungrounded reason to force people to say "Duānwǔ jié ānkāng 端午节安康" is ridiculous. It's another kind of the so-called “moral abduction” (dàodé bǎngjià 道德绑架) that has become popular in recent years in China. This term means "In the name of morality, people use excessive or even unrealistic standards to demand, coerce or attack others, and to influence their behaviors."
 
People, of course, can say "Duānwǔ jié ānkāng 端午节安康" if they like but you simply can't force other people to say it. 
 
If you are interested in “moral abduction” in China, here is a revealing post. 
Summary comment by Zihan Guo:
I sense that it is a recent trend in the past few years. Advocates for Duānwǔ jié ānkāng 端午節安康 deride those who say Duānwǔ jié kuàilè 端午節快樂 for their lack of historical knowledge and understanding, while the latter rebut the former for being too pedantic. I personally do not favor either and am not fastidious enough to denounce either. Some people try to avoid the volatile issue by saying Zòngzi jié kuàilè 粽子節快樂 ("Happy Sticky Rice Dumpling Festival").
 
The first comment "端午节来源是纪念爱国诗人屈原的，所以不能说快乐，我们常说的是安康。"* made me reflect on the purpose of jiérì 節日 ("festival"), usually to celebrate or commemorate. If it is to celebrate, it would make sense to say kuàilè 快樂 ("happy"). If it is to commemorate, with a sense of respect, then it might not be so appropriate, but then I do not quite understand why people feel compelled to greet others on such an occasion (i.e., Duānwǔ jié 端午節). I might remain silent, which does not mean that I am ignorant of its importance. The origin of Duānwǔ jié 端午節 is also not limited to the figure Qū Yuán 屈原 either. The second comment "端午节是怀念死亡者，如果你在怀念你已故的亲人你会好快乐是吗"** made me think that this debate also has to do with the fundamental perception we hold regarding death, that it should be sad, solemn, and somber. Though we read stories like Zhuangzi (4th c. BC) drumming a basin after the death of his wife and Buddhist teachings on samsara, many still see the topic of death as somewhat taboo.
 
A Chinese way of greeting should be Chī zòngzile ma 吃粽子了嗎 ("Have you eaten sticky rice dumplings")？
*Copied from above:
Duānwǔ jié láiyuán shì jìniàn àiguó shīrén Qū Yuán de, suǒyǐ bùnéng shuō kuàilè, wǒmen cháng shuō de shì ānkāng.端午节来源是纪念爱国诗人屈原的，所以不能说快乐，我们常说的是安康。"The origin of the Dragon Boat Festival is to commemorate the patriotic poet Qu Yuan, so we can't say happiness, we often say well-being."
**Copied from above:
Duānwǔ jié shì huáiniàn sǐwáng zhě, rúguǒ nǐ zài huáiniàn nǐ yǐ gù de qīnrén nǐ huì hǎo kuàilè shì ma?端午节是怀念死亡者，如果你在怀念你已故的亲人你会好快乐是吗？"Dragon Boat Festival is to cherish the dead; if you cherish your deceased relatives, would it be right for you to be happy?"
A half-dozen actual felicitations received by a colleague from family and friends in Taiwan (think of each of them as being preceded by "May your…"):
Duānwǔ jíxiáng
端午吉祥
"Duanwu [be] auspicious"
 
Duānwǔ ānkāng
端午安康
"Duanwu [be filled with] well-being"
 
Duānwǔ jié kuàilè
端午節快樂
"Duanwu Festival [be] happy"
 
Duānwǔ jiājié yúkuài
端午佳節愉快
"Duanwu Fine Festival [be] joyful"
 
Duānwǔ jiànkāng píng'ān
端午健康平安
"Duanwu [be filled with] health and safety"
 
Hǎoshì chéngshuāng jiēzòng ér zhì
好事成雙接粽*而至
"[Duanwu have] good things come in pairs and follow on each other's heels"
*zong ("sticky dumpling") is serving as a pun for zhǒng 踵 ("heel")
They are very revealing.  My colleague told me that, in the past, she herself never felt the slightest qualms about wishing people joy and happiness on Duanwu Festival.  Only in the last few years has she begun to feel under pressure to be more subdued and thoughtful and less celebratory on Duanwu Festival.
Conclusion
Taking all the above into consideration, I conclude that the recent tendency to solemnize what used to be a time of celebration and joy is the result of politicization of this festival day, as well as many other aspects of public life, by the current paramount / supreme leader of the PRC as part of his quest to become the first communist emperor of the Central Kingdom and All Under Heaven.  Or did Mao Zedong already do that once?  If so, that would make the current paramount / supreme leader of the PRC the second communist emperor of the Central Kingdom, though Mao never succeeded in becoming the ruler of All Under Heaven writ large.
One thing I can guarantee:  people still get very excited and happy about making and eating zongzi on Dragon Boat Festival.  I had some made by a friend last night.
 
Selected readings

"Horses, soma, riddles, magi, and animal style art in southern China" (11/11/19)
"Thai 'khwan' ('soul') and Old Sinitic reconstructions" (1/28/19)
"Sour waist" (12/4/20)
"Nguyen: the most common Vietnamese surname" (1/22/17) — especially this comment on Wu Zixu

Bibliography

Here's a thoughtful article (posted on the Baidu website) which says that it's quite all right to be happy on Duanwu Festival, as people have been for many centuries.
Here's a densely documented scholarly paper on the Duanwu Festival by the poet Wen Yiduo (1899-1946).
A study on the origins of the Duanwu Festival from the government of the city of Fuzhou.
All three of the above items are in Chinese.
Even this official CCP English newspaper article declares that it is all right to celebrate Dragon Boat Festival and make merry, though the title couldn't help but be politically didactic:  "Traditions transcend centuries to reflect people's patriotism".

[Thanks to Ross Darrell Feingold, Grace Wu, Fangyi Cheng, Jing Hu, Xiuyuan Mi, and Yixue Yang]This report can be relatively perfunctory, because the results are almost always a foregone conclusion.  After a hiatus because of the pandemic lockdowns and then an incredible shocker last year (see "Selected readings" below), there are basically no surprises… though the format has evolved.
The new thing this time was a "spell-off" that kicked in if no winner came out after a certain number of rounds. It was hard to bring the previous bees to a conclusive end because the participants were so consummately well prepared — there was an 8-way tie in 2019.  I like the new format because, not only does it eliminate overly long proceedings and multiple ties, it also adds an element of extra drama and speed to the finale.  The unsurprising thing this year was that 11 out of 13 finalists looked to be of Indian origin. (source)

"Harini Logan is the 2022 Scripps National Spelling Bee champion after a historic spell-off", by Amir Vera and Leah Asmelash, CNN (June 3, 2022)
Spelling bee champ discusses preparations for annual event
—–

History was made Thursday night when Harini Logan, 14, won the first-ever spell-off at the 2022 Scripps National Spelling Bee.

The San Antonio, Texas, native received a trophy and a check for $50,000.
Harini went head-to-head with Vikram Raju, 12, in the spell-off, a format that tested the contestants on how many words they could correctly spell within 90 seconds.
 
Harini spelled 21 out of 26 words correctly, while Vikram got 15 out of 19 words right.
This was Harini's fourth appearance in the national spelling bee.  Her father is Dinesh Chandrasekhar and her mother is Priya Logan. (source)
 
Selected readings

"Spelling bee 2021 – Indian streak broken!" (7/9/21)
"What happened to the spelling bee this year?" (10/21/20)
"Spelling Bee 2019" (5/31/10)
"The worldly sport of spelling" (6/2/18)
“Spelling bee champs” (6/1/14)
“Spelling bees and character amnesia” (8/7/13)
“Brain imaging and spelling champions” (8/7/15)
“Spoken Sanskrit” (1/9/16)
"Once more on the mystery of the national spelling bee" (5/27/16)
"Spelling bees in the 1940s" (7/10/16)
"Yet again on the mystery of the national spelling bee" (6/5/17)

[Thanks to H. Krishnapriyan]Recently I've been learning a lot of new letterisms — which I propose as a useful term covering both acronyms and initialisms, as well as some other cases within the general category of abbreviations. Sure, ACLU is pronounced as a sequence of four letter names, while NATO is pronounced as two syllables with no letter names involved. But there's variation: the School of Arts and Sciences at Penn is SAS, sometimes called "S A S" and sometimes "sass"; the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences is sometimes "S E A S" and sometimes "sees". And there are mixed cases. In Penn's residential system, for example, HMOD is a designated role, standing for "Housing Manager On Duty",  and pronounced /ˈeʧˌmɐd/, i.e. the letter "H" followed by the syllable "mod".
And for examples learned though reading, it can be unclear what the pronunciation should be. I know that ACLU is not "a clue" because I've heard it pronounced many times — but what about SLIFE = "Students with Limited or Interrupted Formal Education", a letterism that I learned a few days ago? (It's new enough that the Acronym Finder page doesn't know about it yet…) Is SLIFE a single syllable rhyming with knife? or is it the letter S followed by "life"? or is it the sequence of five letter names "S L I F E"? I'm guessing that it's one of the first two, but I could be wrong.

Anyhow, many new (to me) letterisms have been coming from reporting on the war in Ukraine, specifically the names of  weapon systems, like GMLRS ("Guided Multiple Launch Rocket System"), DPICM ("Dual-Purpose Improved Conventional Munition"), and HIMARS ("High Mobility Artillery Rocket System"). In some cases there are non-initial letters that seem to be aids to pronounceability, like the "I" in HIMARS. In other cases, there are additional word fragments that may help with learning and memory but don't seem to aid pronunciation, like ATACMS ("Army Tactical Missile System"). (Though I guess that one could be "attack M S"?)
The military has a long tradition of letterism creation, well established when I was drafted in 1969, and obviously flourishing in the decades since then. (And this reminds me that there's an additional category of letterisms, namely those that use the "military alphabet" letter names, like "Whiskey Tango Foxtrot" for "WTF".)
Other government agencies have similar histories of proliferating letterisms, and private-sector organizations have joined in enthusiastically. Which leads me to wonder when it started, and how it developed.
The OED's citations for initialism go back to 1899:
1899   R. Thomas in Notes & Queries 9th Ser. III. 103/1   In my ‘Handbook’ I give an initialism of Mr. Watts's, ‘P. P. C. R.’
1928   H. M. Paull Lit. Ethics xvii. 189   All sorts of devices are adopted by the author, who does not wish his name to be known. He may..disguise it in various ways, using initials, asterisks, a reversed name, or one of the opposite sex,..respectively initialism, asterism, boustrophedon and pseudandry.
The citations for acronym go back only to the 1940s:
1940 W. Muir & E. Muir tr. L. Feuchtwanger Paris Gaz. iii. xlvii. 518 Pee-gee-enn. It's an acronym [Ger. Akronym], that's what it is. That's what they call words made up of initials.
1947 T. M. Pearce in Word Study May 8/2 The acronym DDT..trips pleasantly on the tongue and is already a household byword.
Under whatever name, letterisms were clearly in wide use early in the 20th century. The National Archives of Australia has a page on "Abbreviations used in World War I and World War II service records".
What about earlier centuries? Of course there's SPQR, in use from 80 BC — but was it an isolated usage, or part of a larger pattern? The Wikipedia article on HMS  ("His or Her Majesty's Ship") says that "The first recorded use of the abbreviated form HMS was in 1789, in respect of HMS Phoenix", but again, it's not clear whether this was an isolated case or part of a trend. The OED's citations for R.I.P. go back to the 17th century, though the English version apparently doesn't start until 1809:
1613   J. Boys Expos. Festivall Epist. & Gospels 81   I finde in the records of antiquitie, that a Sepulchre is called requietorium, a bed of sacred rest and securitie, which Valerius Probus expressed in these letters, H.R.I.P. hic requiescet in pace.
1681   W. Bates Vitæ 441   Pro titulo, Tumulo inscribi cupio… Immortalitatem hic expectat. R. I. P.
1809 D. Hughson London VI. 371 R. I. P. (Requiescat in pace—Let him (or her) rest in peace) which initials are always used by the Catholics on their sepulchral monuments.
In contrast, the Wikipedia article on Grande Armée slang doesn't seem to include any letterisms, though I haven't checked the whole thing. This article on Civil War slang is also (I think) letterism-free. No doubt scanning historical sources like the Congressional Record and the Hansards would be informative.
That's all I have time for this morning, but perhaps some enterprising lexicographer has already charted the history?
 This sounds like it should be a technical term in one discipline or another.  I did a Google search for "negative ambiguity" and received 42,800 hits, a negligible number of them false because of punctuation issues.  They occur in contexts that fall under psychology, economics, sociology, language and linguistics (grammar, syntax, scope, attachment, translation, etc.), sexuality, business and administration (leadership), investment, finance, tourism, education, biology, military science, politics, race studies (identity), etc.
One of the most prolific sources for the use of "negative ambiguity" is in this low key but still extraordinary paper by WANG Bo1, XIE Junwei1, ZHANG Jing2, and SUN Bosen3   in Journal of Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics ›› 2020, Vol. 46 ›› Issue (1): 122-132. doi: 10.13700/j.bh.1001-5965.2019.0133, "Negative ambiguity function characteristics simulation of FDA", where it occurs frequently. 
1. Air and Missile Defense College, Air Force Engineering University, Xi'an 710051, China2. Shaanxi College of Communication Technology, Xi'an 710018, China3. School of Information, Xi'an University of Finance and Economics, Xi'an 710100, China




Received: 2019-03-27 Published:2020-01-21
Supported
            by:
National Natural Science Foundation of China (61503408)






Here's the abstract:
Considering that the existing extensive research on frequency diverse array (FDA) is mainly working on the assumption that single-carrier frequency signals are transmitted under narrow-band conditions. And there is a lack of relevant research on the issue whether linear frequency modulation signals are suitable for FDAs. Considering that ambiguity function based optimization is an important means of radar's waveform design, based on the establishment of FDA data model, this paper establishes FDA negative ambiguity function under linear array transmission and single-antenna reception model and analyzes its main characteristics systematically. On this basis, the characteristics of FDA negative ambiguity function based on rectangular pulse, linear frequency modulation (LFM) signal and different nonlinear frequency offset are simulated and compared. The performance of target range-angle two-dimensional joint estimation of FDA using different nonlinear frequency control functions is compared. The simulation results verify that the FDA ambiguity function is correct, and the performance of FDA with sinusoidal frequency offset is the best. This lays an important foundation for the complex signal FDA waveform design based on ambiguity function and the transmission waveform design based on FDA beampatten [recte beam pattern] decoupling technology.
Most Language Log readers will undoubtedly recognize that "frequency modulation" is where our abbreviation FM (radio transmission) derives from, but it has other applications:
Frequency modulation (FM) is the encoding of information in a carrier wave by varying the instantaneous frequency of the wave. The technology is used in telecommunications, radio broadcasting, signal processing, and computing.
(source)
The reason I thought about "negative ambiguity" at all is because, under that heading, Stephen Hart sent me the following note:
This quote appears in numerous publications:
"Why aren't people in general not talking more about the pot psychosis-violent behavior connection?"
— Fox News host Laura Ingraham
Ingraham's quotation even made it into Doonesbury several days ago.
As I set about trying to parse what she said, I wondered whether “are” and “aren’t” might (not [!]) have been confused when transcribing from audio.  But the transcriptions throughout the media are essentially identical in writing "aren't".  Was Ingraham misnegating?
 
Selected readings

"Ambiguous triple negative" (8/11/21)
"Nothing that wasn't something one might not hear" (2/25/10)
"Double lie toe tease" (3/14/12)
"Nondisunnegativity" (12/11/12)
"Evidential 'ain't' on the hustings" (11/1/08)
Tension over the prolonged pandemic lockdowns in Chinese cities is growing.  Thus violence has erupted even in Beijing, where we get scenes like this in the suburb of Yanjiao, 21 miles east of Tiananmen, where workers are demonstrating for the right to travel to their jobs in the city, with continuous cries of "jǐngchá dǎ rén 警察打人" ("the police are beating people").  But it is Shanghai where the citizens have suffered most grievously and for the longest period of time.  Although the government has announced the lifting of the lockdowns, many of the most obnoxious mandates (e.g., repeated, frequent nucleic acid testing) are still being enforced.  All of this has led to extreme cynicism and a greater willingness to confront the authorities.  Some of these sentiments are conveyed on this card where, naturally in the land of the most severe censorship in the world, they must employ clever indirection, which I shall try to explain below:

I will not transcribe and translate every character on the card, but will cover all of its contents.
The part at the very top in the curved cartouche is a Shanghainese expression meaning basically "playing around".  The part at the very bottom says "Shanghai chives".  Why chives (jiǔcài 韭菜)?  As used here, it is a PRC internet neologism referring to "someone who can be repeatedly deceived and exploited, especially by the government or the stock market; dupe; shitizen" (source)  This neologistic sense derives metaphorically from the property of chives in regrowing tenaciously and quickly after their green leaves / tops are cut off and used by those who harvest them.
A central message that the creators of this card want to convey is that the lifting of lockdowns is just a joke, trying to mollify the undercurrent of resentment among Shanghainese, to be revoked before long. They have been going back and forth between lockdown and lifting for a long time already, hence the metaphor of cutting chives.  This "celebration" reeks, if I may, of irony.  Playing / toying with the people, as it were.
From a correspondent in China:
There will be more conflicts in the future. When the economy collapses, the regime will fall to pieces. People are shouting "土匪“（"bandits"). They are fighting for their right to go to work, but I don't think they are literally aware that what they do is against dictatorship. How many people still remember May 35th* when it becomes a taboo and eliminated from media? Chinese people are lost in fake history while the country boasts of its incessant official historical recordings.
[*June 4, 1989]
Shanghai people celebrated their release from quarantine on June 1. It started from April 1 (Fool's Day) and ended on June 1 (Children's Day) 1, starting from a farce and ending like a child's play. Much ado about nothing. But what then? Shanghai residents as well as those in many other cities still have to take pcr test every 72/48 hours to be permitted into any public places. I've attached two pictures** of how they have to queue for hours to get tested.
Let's wait and see how the farce ends.
[**VHM:  Omitted here; available upon request]  
The author is a historian of dramatic arts.
Selected readings

"Ramps, chives, garlic, and other members of the Allium genus" (4/29/13)
"'Lying flat' and 'Involution': passive-aggressive resistance'" (6/4/21) — in the comments
"Dumpling ingredients and character amnesia" (10/18/14)
"Your Pinky Heart" (10/22/21)
"Tongji University's creative Sinographic design" (4/29/22)
"Fully vaccinated or not in English, French, and Chinese" (7/26/21) — with an extensive bibliography on lockdowns and mandates
For cognoscenti.
Directions
Here's an amazing little game that was played by two of the brightest Sinology PhD candidates I've ever met.  It is a conversation between X and Y.  Y initiated the conversation by typing to X, without telling X the secret of the game.  When X received Y's first message, she immediately got what Y meant.  She understood as soon as she received his e-mail, then replied to him (by typing) in the same manner that he wrote to her.  And so off they went on their merry way in Lexiland!
Here I copy-paste this little hànzì yóuxì 汉字游戏 for Language Log readers who are well-versed in Sinographs and want to give it a try.  Even those who do not know any Chinese characters might still be able to gain a sense of how the game proceeds and what it signifies.
The "answer sheet” is at the bottom of this post. Please scroll down to the very, very end to see the answers. However, don’t look at the dá'àn 答案 ("solution") before trying really hard by yourself!
Warning!
This game is devilishly difficult.

Y:  見才戈酉是巴户又子勺立付取卓，睘能干重馬?
X:  白止不大子賣……
Y:  十麻人者不行。
X:  可，古十隹者不行。
Y:  余了女禾五已月。
X:  戈夭風了
Y:  殳事元元 ;)
X:  古十一般勺人堇已臼刀。
X: 女可。
Y: 止句不元全止尼。
X: 又取。
Solution
Y was trying to test whether hànzì would still possibly be readable if all the semantic components were taken off — i.e., if only the phonetic component of each Chinese character remains.  So it was a “test" between the two players — well, from a foreigner Sinologist to a native Chinese speaker — in order to explore the Chinese writing system's potential to be written / represented only by every character's shēngfú 声符 ("phonophore; phonetic element of a Chinese pictophonetic character").  This test not only approaches the history and the failure of Èrjiǎnzì 二简字 ("Second round of simplified Chinese characters") policy carried out by Mao, but also tries to probe the limit of how “phonetic” the Chinese writing system can be without switching to an alphabetical system. As you can see, it’s not just a very simple “little play”, but has some serious scholarly aims and implications (e.g., whether the Chinese writing system had / has the potential to evolve from a morphosyllabic to a syllabic / phonetic script!).
 
Each sentence that X and Y wrote in their chat was a sentence in which every character only has its shēngfú 声符 ("phonophore") without an yìfú 意符 ("semantophore").
 

Y:  見才，戈酉止巴户又子勺立付取卓，睘能干重馬?
    the "original" sentence: “現在，我要是把所有字的意符取掉，還能看懂嗎？” 
(Y:  Now, if I take off all the semantic components of every Chinese character, is it still readable?)
 
X:   白止不大子賣……
    怕是不大好讀……
(X:  I’m afraid it is not easy to read…)
 
Y:  十麻人者不行。
    什麼人都不行。
(Y: No one can do it.)
 
X:  可，古十隹者不行。
    呵，估計誰都不行。
(X:  Ha, I guess no one can.)
 
Y:  余了爾禾五已月。
    除了你和吾以外。
(Y:  Except for you and me [who] have [the skill].)
 
X:  戈夭風了！
    我笑瘋了！
(X:  I’m laughing crazily!)
 
Y:  殳事元元 ;)
    沒事玩玩 ;)
(Y:  Just playing while being idle…)
 
X:  古十一般勺人堇已臼刀。
    估計一般的人難以料到。
(X:  I guess it is hard for normal people to expect [what the characters mean].)
 
Y:  女可。
    汝可。
(Y:  You can.)
 
X:  止句不元全止尼。
    此句不完全是呢。
(X: This sentence, not really…. [meaning: “女可” is also a normal Classical Chinese sentence; i.e., both 女 and 可 do not have any yìfú 意符 ("semantophore"); they are normal hànzì, but they are also themselves their own shēngfú 声符 ("phonophore").])
 
Y:  又取。

    有趣。
(Y:  [This additional aspect, that some characters don’t have an yìfú 意符 ("semantophore"), but simply are shēngfú 声符 ("phonophores") by themselves, is also] interesting.)
 
Linguistic play can have serious intentions and implications.
 
Selected readings

"Dumpling ingredients and character amnesia, part 2" (4/25/22)
"Which is worse?" (1/21/16)
"Ask Language Log: The alphabet in China" (11/6/19) — with an important list of readings
"Transcription and digraphia in the rapidly changing linguistic landscape of China" (10/24/20) — lengthy bibliography on digraphia
The ambiguity of how to pronounce 咀 (jǔ, zuǐ) in toponyms (see this recent post) is mirrored by the situation regarding 堡.  Is it bǎo, bǔ, or pù?
bǎo

small camp; small mud fortification
fort; fortress
Short for 漢堡／汉堡 (hànbǎo, “hamburger”)

bǔ

(often in placenames) town or village with walls

吳堡 / 吴堡  ―  Wúbǔ  ―  Wubu (county of Yulin, Shaanxi, China)



pù
Used in place names, as a variant of 鋪／铺／舖 (pù, “courier station"

Middle Sinitic: /pɑuX/



Old Sinitic



(Zhengzhang): /*puːʔ/

(source)

Note that 堡 is composed of the phonophore bǎo 保, which has a secondary semantic significance of "raise, rear; keep, maintain; protect, safeguard, defend; ensure, guarantee", and the primary semantophore tǔ 土 ("earth, earthen, made of earth").
I know the controversies over the pronunciation of this character intimately.  In the first instance, 五堡 ("Fifth Burg") is the name of one of the most important archeological sites for my work on the Bronze Age mummies of Eastern Central Asia.  It is where I found the famous Hami Fragment (diagonal twill plaid dating to around 1000 BC studied by Irene Good [see "Selected readings"]).  Fifth Burg is a small village in the middle of the desert about 60 kilometers due west of the city of Hami (Uyghur Qumul) — home of the famous melons — in the far eastern part of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR).  The people who live there are all Uyghurs; I don't think Hans would find it suitable for dwelling.  The local people call it Wǔpù (actually it sounded like Wǔpǔ to me) in Mandarin, but the farther away you go, non-locals tend to call it Wǔbǎo.  In Uyghur, it is referred to as Qizilchoqa ("Red Hillock"), after a conspicuous (though not very large) geological formation in the vicinity.
Another town with 堡 in its name that I'm familiar with is 四堡 ("Fourth Burg"), which is in a very different part of China.  五堡 ("Fifth Burg") is in the far northwest of China, 四堡 ("Fourth Burg") is in the southeast.  A rural book publishing center in the western part of Fujian province, it has been well studied in a monograph by Cynthia Brokaw (Commerce in Culture: The Sibao Book Trade in the Qing and Republican Periods [2007]), who refers to it as Sìbǎo.  Since I had already long since registered it as Sìpǔ in my own mind, just to be sure, I wrote to the local government officials in 四堡 ("Fourth Burg") and asked them how they pronounced the name.  Surprisingly, they varied in their opinion on how the name should be pronounced, with some saying Sìbǎo and some Sìpu.
I've always mentally translated 堡 as "-burg, -burgh", etc.  Indeed, "-burg, -burgh" are frequently transcribed as bǎo in Sinitic, e.g., Pittsburgh transcribed as Pǐzībǎo 匹兹堡, Harrisburg transcribed as Hālǐsībǎo 哈里斯堡, and Hamburg transcribed as Hànbǎo 漢堡.  
Incidentally, I love the Chinese word Hànbǎobāo 漢堡包, both its sound and its shape, where bāo 包 means "package; packet; pack; bag; bundle; bale; parcel". Cf. bāozi 包子 ("steamed stuffed bun"), which may be the goofiest food ever invented.  I don't want to make too much fun of bāozi, though, because they can be incredibly delicious, filling, and satisfying.  Xi Jinping gained notoriety for eating one in public.
My Shandong in-laws pronounced "hamburger" as hanbagejia. Except for the first syllable (Hàn 漢), I have no idea how that would be written in Sinographs, and I don't think they did either.  If they were clever enough, perhaps they would have written the last syllable as jiā 夹/夾 ("press from both sides").  Some of them were themselves consummate tǔbāozi 土包子 ("country bumpkin", lit., "earthen baozi" ["steamed dumpling"]).
Now for a little bit of comparative linguistics.
Indo-European root for "burg":
bhergh-2

High; with derivatives referring to hills and hill-forts.
Oldest form *bherg̑h-, becoming *bhergh- in centum languages.
▲ Derivatives include iceberg, bourgeois, burglar, force, fortify.
1. 
a. barrow2 from Old English beorg, hill;
b. iceberg from Middle Dutch bergh, mountain;
c. inselberg from Old High German berg, mountain;
d.  Germanic compound *harja-bergaz (see koro-). a-d all from Germanic *bergaz, hill, mountain.

2. belfry from Old French berfroi, tower, from Germanic compound *berg-frij-, "high place of safety" tower (*frij-, peace, safety; see prī-)
3.  Zero-grade form *bhr̥gh-.
a. borough, burg from Old English burg, burh, byrig, (fortified) town;
b. burgomaster from Middle Dutch burch, town;
c. bourg, bourgeois, burgess, burglar; faubourg from Late Latin burgus, fortified place, and Old French burg, borough;
d. burgher from Old High German burgāri, townsman, from Germanic compound *burg-warōn-, "city protector" (*warōn-, protector; see wer-4) . a-d all from Germanic *burgs, hill-fort.

4.  Possibly suffixed zero-grade form *bhr̥gh-to-. force, fort, fortalice, forte1, forte2, fortis, fortissimo, fortitude, fortress; comfort, deforce, effort, enforce, fortify, panforte, pianoforte, reinforce from Latin fortis, strong (but this is also possibly from dher-)
[Pokorny bhereg̑h- 140.]

Appendix of Indo-European roots, in American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition.
—
Proto-Indo-European root meaning "high," with derivatives referring to hills and hill-forts. It forms all or part of: barrow (n.2) "mound, hill, grave-mound;" belfry; borough; bourgeoisie; burg; burgess; burgher; burglar; faubourg; iceberg. It is the hypothetical source of/evidence for its existence is provided by: Sanskrit b'rhant "high," brmhati "strengthens, elevates;" Avestan brzant- "high," Old Persian bard- "be high;" Greek Pergamos, name of the citadel of Troy; Old Church Slavonic bregu "mountain, height;" Old Irish brigh "mountain;" Welsh bera "stack, pyramid."
(Online Etymological Dictionary)
This phonetic and semantic correspondence between -burg and bǎo 堡 is one that I had noticed long ago (more than half a century) and am happy that I now have the opportunity to share it with others, all because of the serendipitous association mentioned in the first sentence of this post.
 
Selected readings

"Fun bun pun" (4/9/17)
"Xinjiang Uygur" (8/7/18)
"Archeology and the recovery of ancient writing: bamboo strip manuscripts of seminal classics" (5/27/22)
"Backhill/Peking/Beijing", Sino-Platonic Papers, 19 (June, 1990) (free pdf)
"Archeology and the recovery of ancient writing: bamboo strip manuscripts of seminal classics" (5/2722) — with a very long bibliography on Dunhuang, Tocharian, the importance of archeology for the study of linguisitcs, etc.
Irene Good, "Notes on a Bronze Age textile fragment from Hami, Xinjiang with comments on significance of twill", Journal of Indo-European Studies, 23 (1995), 319-345.
Victor Mair, "Reflections on the Origins of the Modern Standard Mandarin Place-Name 'Dunhuang' — With an Added Note on the Identity of the Modern Uighur Place-Name 'Turpan'", in Li Zheng, et al., eds., Ji Xianlin Jiaoshou bashi huadan jinian lunwenji (Papers in Honour of Prof. Dr. Ji Xianlin on the Occasion of His 80th Birthday) (Nanchang: Jiangxi People's Press, 1991), vol. 2, pp. 901-954 (very long and detailed study).
In the aftermath of Uvalde and other recent mass shootings, there's been renewed discussion of the 2nd amendment. So I'm listing relevant past LLOG posts, culminating with Neal Goldfarb's series of 16 in 2018-19.

"The right to keep and bear adjuncts", 12/17/2007
"What did it mean to 'bear arms' in 1791?", 6/18/2008
"The coming corpus-based reexamination of the Second Amendment", 5/28/2018
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'arms'", 2/20/2019
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: Responding to Weisberg on the meaning of 'bear arms'", 5/29/2018
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: Weisberg responds to me; plus update re OED", 6/2/2018
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: Preliminaries and caveats", 6/4/2018
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: Heller", 6/10/2018
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'keep' (part 1)", 8/9/2018
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'keep' (part 2)", 10/21/2018
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'bear'", 12/16/2018
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'arms'", 2/20/2019
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'bear arms' (part 1), plus a look at 'the right of the people'", 4/29/2019
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'bear arms' (part 2)", 4/30/2019
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'bear arms' (part 3)", 7/10/2019
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'the right (of the people) to … bear arms'", 7/16/2019
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'keep and bear arms' (part 1)", 7/29/2019
"Corpora and the Second Amendment: 'keep and bear arms' (part 2)", 8/23/2019
 Fr. Mike finishes the gospel of Mark by reflecting on the death and resurrection of Christ. He also encourages us to reflect on the redemption of our own sins every time we see a crucifix and to return that same sacrificial love to God every day. Today's readings are Mark 15-16 and Psalm 22.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike guides us through Jesus' warning of persecution to the people of Israel as we near the end of Mark's Gospel. He also touches on how Jesus' behavior in the Garden of Gethsemane should serve as an example to us, and explains why Judas' betrayal was so heartbreaking. Today's readings are Mark 13-14 and Psalm 68.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read about Jesus' entry into Jerusalem, Fr. Mike breaks down Jesus' interactions with his disciples and the sadducees, and his reaction to the widow's offering. We learn that a life rooted in Jesus, is a life that bears good fruit. Today we read Mark 11-12 and Psalm 67.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the reality of sin and our capacity to choose hell as we read about Jesus' teachings on temptations, divorce, and wealth. Jesus' teachings can be challenging, but following him is the path to true holiness. Today we read Mark 9-10 and Psalm 29.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike emphasizes that following Jesus as his disciples requires remarkable humility, faith, purity of heart, and courage. Today's readings are Mark 7-8 and Psalm 23.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue to read about Jesus' ministry, Fr. Mike focuses today on Jesus' power to cast out demons and reminds us that there is an ongoing spiritual battle for our souls. Today's readings are Mark 5-6 and Psalm 21.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read about Jesus' teachings and miracles that confirm his identity as Lord. Fr. Mike emphasizes the divinity of Jesus revealed in his actions, and clarifies historical facts about his life. The readings are Mark 3-4 and Psalm 20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin reading the Gospel of Mark, Fr. Mike points out several amazing details about the baptism of Jesus, as well as some important points about the healing of the paralytic. The readings are Mark 1-2 and Psalm 11.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the second Messianic Checkpoint! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the Gospel of Mark and discuss how this short Gospel helps us understand both the identity and mission of Jesus. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, as we hear about the decline of Solomon, Fr. Mike points out how the consequences of our decisions can have ramifications far beyond ourselves. The readings are 1 Kings 11, Ecclesiastes 10-12, and Psalm 9.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reminds us that, eventually, all of us will be forgotten by the world. He encourages us to keep our eyes fixed on heaven, focusing on surrender and trust in God, rather than control. Today's readings are 1 Kings 10, Ecclesiastes 8-9, and Psalm 8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike delves deeper into the lessons Ecclesiastes teaches us today about living wisely by keeping the end in mind, enjoying the present moment, and not worrying too much about other people's opinions of us. Today's readings are 1 Kings 9, Ecclesiastes 6-7, and Psalm 7.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the details of Solomon's dedication of the Temple, and the power of God's presence dwelling in it. In Ecclesiastes, we continue to learn more nuggets of wisdom about friendship, prudence, and money. Today we read 1 Kings 8,  Ecclesiastes 3-5, and Psalm 6.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we begin reading the book of Ecclesiastes! Fr. Mike helps us understand the central theme of this book of wisdom literature- the meaning of life. What truly matters in this passing life? It's only because God exists that everything matters because our choices and lives will endure into eternity. Today's readings are 1 Kings 7, Ecclesiastes 1-2, and Psalm 5.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the purpose behind the beauty and extravagance of the Temple Solomon built for the Lord. On the other hand, he also points out the issue with the image of power and strength Solomon is trying to portray by gathering so much wealth as King. Today's readings are 1 Kings 6, 2 Chronicles 9, and Psalm 4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reinforces the power of God's presence in the Temple, and the importance of worshipping God the way he desires to be worshipped. We also begin to hear how Solomon starts disobeying God and setting himself up for idolatry. Today's readings are 1 Kings 5, 2 Chronicles 7-8, and Psalm 66.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reveals Solomon's plan of leadership, and how he is aiming to unite the people. He also foreshadows the importance of the temple as a place where Israel can go to worship God as one people. Today's readings are 1 Kings 4, 2 Chronicles 6, and Psalm 65.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reads the story of Solomon's greatest action as king: building a temple for the Lord, showing us how important it is to give glory to the Lord for all he's done for us. He is learning from his father's mistakes, but this story will sadly conclude the greatest moments of his life. Today's readings are 1 Kings 3, 2 Chronicles 4-5, and Psalm 64.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike looks into David's last words to his son Solomon and explains why it could have been hard for him to take David's advice. He also points out the important role of the mother of the king, and how this will foreshadow the role of Mary in the New Testament. Today's readings are 1 Kings 2, 2 Chronicles 2-3, and Psalm 62.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike starts to unpack the character of Solomon and explains how we can see the beginning of his downfall in today's readings. Although Solomon has been blessed with wisdom, he lacks obedience, which is much more important in maintaining a relationship with God. Today's readings are 1 Kings 1, 2 Chronicles 1, and Psalm 43.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike uses the readings today to ask the question, how can we love the Lord joyfully, and with our whole hearts? In scripture today we see David succeed in this, while his son Solomon is divided in his love of God. Fr. Mike also explains why David was seeking his own power when taking the census in 2 Samuel, and how he fell subject to the evil one's tempting. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 24, 1 Chronicles 29, and Psalm 30.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike touches on one of his favorite bible stories about David's mighty men and discusses his attitude in old age. At the end of his life, David chooses not to dwell on his mistakes, but to recognize the people around him and the blessings he received, which helped him accomplish what God was calling him to do. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 23, 1 Chronicles 28, and Psalm 42.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the significance behind David's prayer of thanksgiving at the end of his life. There's something so moving about David's gratitude with God as he acknowledges his brokenness and victories throughout his life. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 22, 1 Chronicles 27, and Psalm 41.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings, Fr. Mike highlights David's humility in two instances: when David asked the Gibeonites how he could repair their relationship after they had been mistreated by Saul, and when David takes a step back from battle. He also explains the role of the gatekeepers as people who would be responsible for guarding the doors to the Temple. The readings are 2 Samuel 21, 1 Chronicles 26, and Psalm 40.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out how violence begets violence in the reading from 2 Samuel, and shows us how the sins we commit extend much further than ourselves. We also read about the Temple musicians in 1 Chronicles, we hear Psalm 39, written by one of those musicians, Jeduthun. Today's reading are 2 Samuel 20, 1 Chronicles 25, and Psalm 39.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings, Fr. Mike points out how the loss of David's son overshadows everything else for a time. The readings are 2 Samuel 19, 1 Chronicles 24, and Psalm 38.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, we hear about the downfall of Absalom, and how David reacts to the news of his death. In Chronicles, we read about David changing some of the rules of worship, as he prepares for Temple worship. The readings are 2 Samuel 18, 1 Chronicles 23, and Psalm 37.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the events of today's readings, breaking down Hushai's advice to Absalom, David's warning and charge of Solomon, and the theme of centralized worship. We all desire to be temples of the Holy Spirit, and we bring this prayer to God through today's episode. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 17, 1 Chronicles 22, and Psalm 36.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about the horrible things that can happen when we turn away from God and stop asking him "what's the next step?" In today's readings we see David humbled and humiliated, Absalom revealing how devastating sin is, and the evil that comes from war. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 16, 1 Chronicles 21, and Psalm 15.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on trust today, specifically trusting God in difficult times. Like David, we need to learn to trust God in the midst of the battle, not wait until it's over. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 15, 1 Chronicles 19-20, and Psalm 3.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the story of David and Absalom, and points out the lack of forgiveness and repentance on both men's part. God forgives us no matter what, but without us mirroring that forgiveness, rebellion can easily rise up. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 14, 1 Chronicles 18, and Psalm 14.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike preaches hope for the future of those with wounded hearts as we read the stories of Tamar, Amnon, and David. No matter what's in your past - things you've done or things that have been done to you - there is abundant hope for your future because God desires to make you whole. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 13, 1 Chronicles 17, and Psalm 35.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike touches on the sins of David, and how we can see ourselves in these fallen characters in scripture. God desires a relationship with us free from sin, and although it may be painful, he brings these things into the light not out of anger, but out of love. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 12, 1 Chronicles 16, and Psalm 51.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down David's tragic downfall as he commits adultery with Bathsheba and kills her husband, Uriah the Hittite. We learn that David's road to grave sin began with small acts of disobedience and selfishness. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 11, 1 Chronicles 14-15, and Psalm 32.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue to read about how King David expands his kingdom, Fr. Mike points out the mighty men of valor, who were men of great courage, honor and excellence that fought in Israel's battles. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 10, 1 Chronicles 13, and Psalm 31.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike draws our attention to David's kindness towards the house of Saul, including Jonathan's lame son Mephibosheth. We learn that even though Saul persecuted David, David continued to honor his descendants. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 9, 1 Chronicles 12, and Psalm 28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike emphasizes how King David's victories in battle are part of his calling to establish Israel as a kingdom. He also reminds us that the recapitulation of the events we read about 1 Chronicles 10-11, is not repetitive, it served a specific purpose for the people of Israel. Today we read 2 Samuel 8, 1 Chronicles 10-11 and Psalm 60.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the moment God makes a covenant with David, promising him an everlasting dynasty, but reserving the building of the Temple to David's son Solomon. He also teaches us how 2 Samuel 7 foreshadows the fact that the Blessed Mother is the new Ark of the Covenant. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 6-7, 1 Chronicles 9, and Psalm 89.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read about the moment David is made king over all Israel. Fr. Mike reveals that as David begins his rule, he has both strengths and weaknesses. Today we read 2 Samuel 5, 1 Chronicles 7-8, and Psalm 27.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the importance of David's reaction to the death of Ish-bosheth, Saul's son. Today we read 2 Samuel 4, 1 Chronicles 5-6, and Psalm 26.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings, we hear about the death of Abner, and Fr. Mike points out how David publicly mourns Abner, and instructs his people to do the same. The readings are 2 Samuel 3, 1 Chronicles 3-4, and Psalm 25.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about how revenge and violence can become a cycle that doesn't end until someone chooses to end it. He also points out how the genealogy in 1 Chronicles reflects the genealogy of Christ. The reading for today are 2 Samuel 2, 1 Chronicles 2, and Psalm 24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we begin two new books as we read 2 Samuel 1, 1 Chronicles 1, and Psalm 13. Fr. Mike shows us how nothing in scripture is wasted space, and also points out how, through God's grace, we can move past the things that have hurt us.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In the last chapters of 1 Samuel, Fr. Mike focuses on David's wisdom in battle through his prayer and ability to unite the people of Israel. He also touches on Psalm 18 and how wonderful things can happen once we allow ourselves to be loved by God. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 29-31 and Psalm 18.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on King Saul's despair in the face of trial, and how he seeks other means of comfort when he feels like God has abandoned him. God never abandons us, especially in the midst of danger. Fr. Mike invites us to place our trust in God's promise, instead of resorting to sinful acts. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 27-28 and Psalm 34.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reveals how David exemplifies the virtues of reverence and faithfulness. David walks both as a man of faith and as a fallen son of God, but we continue to walk with him because we too are striving for a life with Christ. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 26 and Psalm 56.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the relationship between David and Abigail, and how the Lord calls David to be a better man through Abigail. Where has God put these types of relationships in our lives? Today's readings are 1 Samuel 25 and Psalm 63.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike uses King Saul as an example that God does not un-choose those he has chosen, and never loses faith in us. Even if we feel someone is in power unjustly, it's God who decides who holds power, not us. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 24 and Psalm 57.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explores the actions of David before saving the city of Keilah, and how he sets an example for us while discerning God's will. He also points out how God is working constantly in our lives, even if we don't see half of what he's doing. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 23 and Psalm 54.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings, we learn how Doeg the Edomite betrayed David, the priests, and the Lord. Fr. Mike explains that betrayal is painful because our hearts are deeply wounded when trust is broken. Today we read 1 Samuel 21-22 and Psalm 52.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike zeroes in on the deep friendship between Jonathan and David and the enduring power of their brotherly bond. He breaks down the different kinds of friendship according to Greek philosophy, and points out how true and virtuous friendship is so rare and special. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 20 and Psalm 142.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike contrasts Jonathan's brotherly friendship with David, and Saul's bitterness and envy towards David. We also learn from Psalm 59 that David still praised God in his distress as Saul tried to kill him. Today we read 1 Samuel 18-19 and Psalm 59.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read the epic story of how David defeats Goliath, a giant Philistine warrior. Fr. Mike points out that David's heroic courage in this battle came from David's faithfulness to God and to the small tasks entrusted to him as a shepherd. We learn that when we are faithful and courageous in small matters, we can face the giants in our bigger battles. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 17 and Psalm 12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue to read about Saul's vanity and disobedience, Fr. Mike emphasizes the importance of the virtue of obedience in our relationship with God. He also points out how God chose David to be anointed as king because David was a man after God's own heart. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 15-16 and Psalm 61.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights Saul's brokenness and vanity as he makes an unlawful sacrifice and a rash oath in order to save Israel in the midst of war. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 13-14, and Psalm 58.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue reading from 1 Samuel, Fr. Mike points out how God gave the people a king like they wanted, even though it was not part of his plan. This reveals to us that even when we choose things that God does not want for us, he is still with us. The readings are 1 Samuel 11-12 and Psalm 55.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin the Royal Kingdom period, we hear about the first king of Israel, Saul. We discover that though Saul looks like a fearless warrior, he has a major flaw. Fr. Mike also points out the significance of the readings from Proverbs. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 9-10 and Proverbs 6:23-35.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the Royal Kingdom period! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to set the scene for this time period. They review the major players, and why the people of Israel asked for a king.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In our final reading from the Gospel of John, we hear about the crucifixion, death, and resurrection of Jesus. Fr. Mike points out the connection between the Paschal lamb and Jesus, and also the connection between the Last Supper and the Crucifixion. Today's readings are John 19-21 and Proverbs 6:16-22.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the prayer of Jesus before his sacrifice, where he not only prays for all his disciples but for us as well. We also dive into Christ's trial with Pilate, and how the actions of the Jews are much like ours today. Today's readings are John 16-18 and Proverbs 6:12-15.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out the secrecy in Judas' life, and highlights Jesus' words of conviction to the disciples before his death on the cross. He also explains how important it is to bring Jesus into our temptation, and to not hide our hearts from him like Judas did. Today's readings are John 13-15 and Proverbs 6:6-11.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike recalls the death of Lazarus, and how Jesus not only allowed himself to be broken by the sorrow that breaks us but also how he took that hopelessness and brought forth life. He also explains how the covenants we've seen in the Old Testament are all leading to the eternal covenant that will be instituted through Christ on the Cross. Today's readings are John 10-12 and Proverbs 6:1-5.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how the signs and wonders Jesus demonstrates in the Gospel point to the truth of his identity. He also touches on Proverbs 5, especially the last verse touching on discipline. Today's readings are John 7-9 and Proverbs 5:15-23.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read about Jesus' powerful teaching about the Eucharist. Fr. Mike invites us to believe that the Eucharist is truly the Body, Blood, Soul, and Divinity of Our Lord Jesus Christ because Jesus said it himself. Today's readings are John 4-6 and Proverbs 5:7-14.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we begin reading the Gospel of John! Fr. Mike emphasizes the significance of Jesus' divinity, and explains how the story of salvation culminates in Christ as the Messiah. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.You've made it to the first Messianic Checkpoint! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the Gospel of John. They discuss the structure of this Gospel and what makes it so different from the other three Gospels. We learn that the Gospel of John doesn't just tell us what Jesus did, but most importantly who he is. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike draws our attention to Samuel's sons who turned away from God as they ruled over Israel and how the people of Israel rejected God from being their king. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 6-8 and Psalm 86.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike zeroes in on Samuel's dramatic prophecy and the tragic moment when the Philistines capture of the Ark of God. We learn that God is mighty and holds his people to a high standard. Today we read 1 Samuel 3-5 and Psalm 150.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin to read the first book of Samuel, Fr. Mike highlights the miraculous birth of Samuel and how Hannah's deep longing for a son never became an idol in her heart. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 1-2 and Psalm 149.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we conclude the book of Judges, we hear about the horrifying events that occurred among the tribes of Israel in the days when "every man did what was right in his own eyes". The readings for today are Judges 19-21 and Psalm 148.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we follow two stories of betrayal with Samson and Delilah and Micah and the Levite. Fr. Mike also explains why Judges is the best example of how God can use broken people to do his will. The reading are Judges 16-18 and Psalm 147.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, Fr. Mike begins to read Samson's story and points out that Samson, despite his physical strength, has a lot of weaknesses. The readings are Judges 12-15 and Psalm 146.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today's readings are Judges 9-11, Ruth 4, and Psalm 137. In the reading from Judges, we hear about the rise and fall of Abimelech, as well as the misguided and heartbreaking vow Jephthah makes to God in return for victory over the Ammonites. We also conclude the book of Ruth with the marriage of Boaz and Ruth.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's reading from Judges, Fr. Mike talk about Gideon's story, and points out how the people began to worship the object Gideon had created to glorify God, instead of worshipping the living God. In Ruth, he highlights the role of kinsman-redeemer and how Jesus is the ultimate fulfillment of that role. Today's readings are Judges 6-8, Ruth 3, and Psalm 135.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the life of Ruth, and what seems to be the first day of hope she's had in a long time. Sometimes it takes a long time to catch a glimmer of hope in the darkness of our lives, but Ruth reminds us that no matter what we've been through, God is always with us. Today's readings are Judges 4-5, Ruth 2, and Psalm 134.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the book of Judges! Fr. Mike foreshadows the events of Judges, and the cycle of disobedience we'll continue to see Israel go through. He also gives some context on the book of Ruth, and how we can find grace within the frustrating moments of Scripture. Today's readings are Judges 1-3, Ruth 1, and Psalm 133.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on the last words Joshua speaks to the people of Israel, and how he calls them to choose the Lord above all other things. We all have idols in our lives that take us away from God; how are we choosing to love Christ above these idols today? Today's readings are Joshua 22-24, and Psalm 132.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reminds us that God keeps his promises, even if it takes a little longer than we thought. Just like the people of Israel received everything the Lord had promised them, we too will receive everything the Lord has promised us, even in the midst of hardship and temptation. Today's readings are Joshua 19-21, and Psalm 131.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reminds us that God is present with us in every step of our journey, even the seemingly mundane aspects. He also encourages us to not be discouraged on this journey, but to focus on relating to the historic stories of our biblical brothers and sisters. Today's readings are Joshua 15-18, and Psalm 130.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read about Joshua leading Israel into battle, Fr. Mike helps us comprehend the meaning behind all the destruction God commands. He emphasizes that God ultimately wants us to fight for each other and not against each other. Today's readings are Joshua 12-14, and Psalm 129.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike offers us different ways we can interpret the miracle of the sun standing still in Joshua 10, and also reminds us that God always desires unity for us even though we often face war and division in this world. Today's readings are Joshua 10-11, and Psalm 128.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike expands on the significance of establishing a covenant relationship, and how the trickery of the Gibeonites can represent the desire to enter into a relationship with God out of fear rather than out of love. Today's readings are Joshua 8-9, and Psalm 126.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the meaning of circumcision for Israel's relationship with God. He also underscore the gravity of Achan's sin, and how the Valley of Achor symbolizes shame that is painful but not hopeless. Today we read Joshua 5-7 and Psalm 125. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin our reading of the book Joshua, Fr. Mike draws our attention to God's power as he parts the waters of the Jordan river, allowing the Israelites to walk across on dry land. We learn that following God often requires great courage and trust. Today's readings are Joshua 1-4, and Psalm 123.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Congratulations on completing the Desert Wanderings period! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the fifth biblical period, Conquest and Judges. They discuss the trials the Israelites face as they enter the Promised Land. We learn that the book of Joshua and the book of Judges are characterized by Israel's unfaithfulness, destruction, and repentance. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we finish our journey through the Desert Wanderings, Fr. Mike zeroes in on the purpose of cities of refuge for the Israelites and the strong bond of community that they shared and maintained as the tribes grew. Today's readings are Numbers 35-36, Deuteronomy 34, and Psalm 121.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, Fr. Mike points out how the boundaries of the land of Canaan in Numbers remind us that the Promised Land is not a nice idea, but a real tangible place. He also reveals that Psalm 120 begins the Psalms of Ascent, or the Psalms that people would pray as they went up to the Temple to worship. The readings are Numbers 34, Deuteronomy 33, and Psalm 120.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings, we trace the route of the Israelites in Numbers and hear the song of Moses in Deuteronomy. Fr. Mike reflects on a hard lesson from these passages; that God will allow us to choose something other than him, even though it hurts us. The readings are Numbers 33, Deuteronomy 32, and Psalm 118.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out why it's important that the tribes of Reuben and Gad agree to fight in Numbers 32 and also reflects on how God knows that his people will be faithless, and yet He remains faithful to them. The readings are Numbers 32, Deuteronomy 31, and Psalm 117.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down the battle against Midian and explains why God would allow destruction and warfare that can seem brutal. He also highlights how we can learn from Israel's weakness by destroying the things in our lives that lead us away from God. Today's readings are Numbers 31, Deuteronomy 30, and Psalm 116.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike gives us some background around the feast days of the Old Testament and emphasizes the importance of vows, which are serious promises made with God. Today's readings are Numbers 29-30, Deuteronomy 29, and Psalm 113.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike discusses the inheritance given to Zelophehad's daughters. He also highlights the journey of Joshua as Moses' successor, and how Christ is the fulfillment of Joshua's leadership. Today's readings are Numbers 27-28, Deuteronomy 28, and Psalm 112.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why it was important to take a census at different points of the people of Israel in the Old Testament. We also learn that the Tribe of Levi is the only tribe that doesn't get an inheritance of land, because they're receiving something much greater. Today's readings are Numbers 26, Deuteronomy 27, and Psalm 111.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike describes the sinful events of Israel in Moab, and why God chooses to bless the Israelites through Balaam in spite of their sin. Today's readings are Numbers 24-25, Deuteronomy 26, and Psalm 107.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike shares more details surrounding the Old Testament laws, including why God would give us these laws in the first place. Today's readings are Numbers 23, Deuteronomy 24-25, and Psalm 106.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike dives into the character of Balaam, and why his offense was so treacherous towards his relationship with God. Today's readings are Numbers 22, Deuteronomy 23, and Psalm 105.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how the bronze serpent is a prefiguration of Jesus on the Cross.  We also continue to learn how God's laws in Deuteronomy redefine the social and sexual norms for the Israelites to teach them about the dignity of every human person. Today's readings are Numbers 21, Deuteronomy 22, and Psalm 102.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike describes the miracle of the waters of Meribah that God performs for his people in the wilderness. He also explains the logic behind the laws God gives his people to restore their morality as they learn to live in relationship with each other. Today we read Numbers 19-20, Deuteronomy 21, and Psalm 100.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down God's divine judgement, and the refuge he offers to those who are faithful to him. Today's readings are Numbers 18, Deuteronomy 19-20, and Psalm 99.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike discusses the forbidden forms of worship explained in Numbers 17, and why it's important for us to understand how God desired to be worshipped in the Old Testament. Today's readings are Numbers 17, Deuteronomy 17-18, and Psalm 98.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike dives into the recurring issue of the Israelites rebelling against God and remaining stuck in their past as we read about the revolt of Korah, Dathan and Abiram against Moses and Aaron. Today's readings are Numbers 16, Deuteronomy 15-16, and Psalm 97.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why God would give the Israelites such drastic consequences for their sin, and how it reveals his divine plan and infinite mercy. Today's readings are Numbers 15, Deuteronomy 13-14, and Psalm 96.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In our reading of Numbers 14 today, Fr. Mike highlights how the rebellion of the Israelites which was marked by distrust and fear, will have consequences for their children. We also read today Deuteronomy 12, and Psalm 95.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read Numbers 12 and 13, Deuteronomy 11, and Psalm 94, Fr. Mike reflects on the conflict between Aaron, Miriam, and Moses and explains why Miriam appears to be the only one punished. He also mentions the lack of trust the people continue to have in God, as they discover that the land of Canaan is occupied by a seemingly stronger force.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike discusses how the Israelites complaining against God and believing they were better off in Egypt reflects our own inclination to be enslaved by sin. Today's readings are Numbers 11, Deuteronomy 10, and Psalm 33.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike makes note of how the tribes of Israel travel with Judah (praise) leading the way, and makes note of how Moses intercedes for the people and acts as a mediator between God and man. Today's readings are Numbers 10, Deuteronomy 9, and Psalm 10.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read Numbers 8-9, Deuteronomy 8, and Psalm 93, Fr. Mike reflects on how the Israelites were expected to celebrate Passover in all circumstances, learned to trust that God would lead them to where they needed to go, and needed to remember God in times of abundance as well as darkness.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down the purpose of the various offerings during the dedication of the tabernacle. We are also reminded that the people of Israel are God's chosen people because they have a key mission. Today's readings are Numbers 7, Deuteronomy 7, and Psalm 92
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the significance behind the Nazarite vow and the priestly blessing in Numbers 6. We also learn why the Great Command revealed in Deuteronomy 6 is the foundation of all other commandments. Today we pray Psalm 91. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how God elevates the dignity of women by providing new laws around husbands accusing their wives of unfaithfulness. Today we read from Numbers 5, Deuteronomy 5, and Psalm 90. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike underscores the importance of obeying God as he reads from Numbers 4 and Deuteronomy 4. We also read Psalm 88 and learn how it foreshadows the darkness Christ endured on the cross. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike clarifies some questions surrounding the Tribe of Levi and talks about what it means to be held to a higher standard as a leader in your community. Numbers 3, Deuteronomy 3, and Psalm 87.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about the twelve tribes of Israel and explains why the book of Numbers introduces them based on the number of decedents they each had. Today we read Numbers 2, Deuteronomy 2, and Psalm 85.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike kicks off our reading of the book of Numbers by explaining where Israel is at in their journey with the Lord, and how they are keeping him at the center of it all (literally). Today we read from Numbers 1, Deuteronomy 1, and Psalm 84.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Congratulations, you've completed the Egypt & Exodus period and you've arrived at the Desert Wanderings ! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to provide us the context for the book of Numbers and the book of Deuteronomy. They discuss how this period is marked by Israel's rebellion against God as they wander in the desert for forty years striving to regain their narrative and identity. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we finish our reading of Exodus, Fr. Mike recaps the events of Israel and how God shaped his people in worship. Today's readings are Exodus 39-40, Leviticus 27, and Psalm 83.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike encourages us to look at how we can increase our generosity to God and neighbor, inspired by the sacrificial offerings of Israel. Our readings for today are Exodus 37-38, Leviticus 26, and Psalm 82.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why God repeats some of his instructions for worship and lays out the purpose for the year of jubilee. The readings are Exodus 35-36, Leviticus 25, and Psalm 81.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on God's presence to his people, and how that makes his chosen people distinct. Today's readings are Exodus 33-34, Leviticus 24, and Psalm 80.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's reading from Exodus 32, Fr. Mike shows us how when we become uncertain, we immediate try to take control of the situation, and build up idols in our hearts. We also read Leviticus 23 and Psalm 79.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out how blessing something sets it apart for the purposes of God, and it is no longer meant for ordinary uses. So when we are filled with the spirit of God, our daily task becomes extraordinary, because it is consecrated to God. Today's readings are Exodus 30-31, Leviticus 22, and Psalm 115.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read Exodus 29, Leviticus 21, and Psalm 119:121-176, Fr. Mike points out how God calls broken and imperfect men to his holy priesthood, and asks each of us to say a special prayer for priests today.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how the holy garments for priests described in Exodus 27-28, are intentionally designed to glorify God and highlight his beauty. He also gives us an insight into the heart of the priesthood. We read today from Exodus 27-28, Leviticus 20, and Psalm 119: 57-120.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike provides us with a mental picture of the ark of the covenant and reminds that the small details of worship matter as we read Exodus 25-26, Leviticus 19, and Psalm 119:1-56
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down the three types of law we find in Leviticus, including moral laws regarding sexuality. Today's readings are Exodus 24, Leviticus 17-18, and Psalm 78.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reveals the parallels between the day of atonement and the sacrifice of the mass. We learn how the temple worship practices of the old testament foreshadow the worship practices of the Catholic Church. Today's readings are Exodus 23, Leviticus 16, and Psalm 77.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, Fr. Mike explains how God's heart is revealed through his commandments, and how we are all called to a life of justice, as we read from Exodus 22, Leviticus 15, and Psalm 76.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike gives us the historical context around the commandments on slavery to help us better grasp the concept of slavery in the Old Testament. Today we read from Exodus 21, Leviticus 14, and Psalm 75.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the meaning of a covenant with God, and how The Ten Commandments strengthen this relationship. Today's readings are Exodus 19-20, Leviticus 13, and Psalm 74.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today's episode dives into the mystical works of God, and what our approach should be for explaining them in the natural world, as we read from Exodus 17-18, Leviticus 12, and Psalm 73.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about how God trains the Israelites to trust him in the wilderness, and how we can grow in our own faithfulness to the Lord. Today we read Exodus 15-16, Leviticus 11, and Psalm 71.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how all the rules of worship in Leviticus 10 point to the reality that God is holy. We also continue journeying through Exodus 13-14  and Psalm 53 and learn how God fought for the salvation for his people through the crossing of the red sea. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we discover how the Passover foreshadows the sacrifice of Jesus and how the people of Israel are transformed by God in the readings from Exodus 12, Leviticus 9, and Psalm 114.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's reading from Exodus 10-11, Fr. Mike explains how the ten plagues reveal that God is far greater than the Egyptian gods. We also discover more about how God wants to be worshipped through Leviticus 8 and Psalm 50. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue to read through the ten plagues of Egypt, Fr. Mike uses the example of Pharoah to show us how our hearts can either harden or melt in response to God. Today we read Exodus 9, Leviticus 7, and Psalm 49.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out how today's reading from Exodus can act like a mirror for us as we continue to hear the story of Moses and Pharaoh in Exodus 8 and also listen to Leviticus 6 and Psalm 48.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how God is doing something new in this period, and shows us how much God desires to pour out his mercy on us. Today we read Exodus 6-7, Leviticus 5, and Psalm 47.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike delves deeper into Moses' call to lead the Israelites out of Egypt, and reminds us that God desires to make us free so we that can worship him. Today's readings are Exodus 4-5, Leviticus 4, and Psalm 46.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reads about the powerful moment God reveals himself to Moses in the burning bush and promises to set the Israelites free from slavery. Today's' readings are Exodus 3, Leviticus 2-3; and Psalm 45.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we begin our journey in Egypt and Exodus as Fr. Mike reads about the birth of Moses, and the connection between burnt offerings and the sacrifice of the mass. Today's readings are Exodus 1-2, Leviticus 1, and Psalm 44.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Congratulations on completing the Patriarchs period! Today, Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to explore the world of Egypt and Exodus. They discuss the common problems we encounter in this period and how to discover the true purpose of God's law.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we wrap up our journey through the Patriarchs as Fr. Mike finishes the book of Genesis and the book of Job. Fr. Mike particularly draws our attention to God's beautiful yet mysterious response to Job's questions. Today's readings are Genesis 49-50, Job 41-42, and Psalm 17.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Where is God in Job's suffering? Today, Fr. Mike dives deeper into Job's questions as he wrestles with his suffering. We learn that God always uses our suffering for a purpose although we may not understand it in the moment. Today's readings are Genesis 47-48, Job 39-40, and Psalm 16. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike takes a look at the dramatic moment when Joseph makes himself known to his brothers and weeps out of joy. Today's readings are Genesis 45-46, Job 37-38, and Proverbs 4:20-27.  
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.We continue reading today Genesis 43-44, Job 35-36, and Proverbs 4:10-19. Fr. Mike highlights the transformation of Judah's heart and how his change shows us that we too can change regardless of our past.    
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike shows us how the faithfulness of Joseph in the Old Testament foreshadows the faithfulness of St. Joseph, the husband of Mary, in the New Testament. Today's readings are Genesis 41-42; Job 33-34 and Proverbs 4:1-9.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike continues reading through Genesis 39-40, Job 31-32 and Proverbs 3:33-35 and reflects on Joseph's righteousness as he walked with God.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about how God can bring great triumph from great brokenness as we read the messy story of Judah and Tamar.  Today's readings are Genesis 38, Job 29-30, and Proverbs 3:28-32.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike zeroes in on the dynamic between Joseph and his older brothers and shows us how the sin of envy is a distorted desire to be loved. Today's readings are Genesis 37, Job 27-28, and Proverbs 3:25-27.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about how God accomplishes his will through us, in spite of our brokenness, and how he is always faithful to his promises. Today's readings are Genesis 35-36, Job 25-26, and Proverbs 3:19-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike dives into the love Jacob has for God, and how this is shown when Jacob meets Esau. Today's readings are Genesis 33-34, Job 23-24, and Proverbs 3:13-18.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the mysterious role suffering in Job's life as we continue journeying through Genesis 31-32, Job 21-22, and Proverbs 3:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on Leah's painful struggle trying to make herself lovable as we continue to read Genesis 29-30, Job 19-20, and Proverbs 3:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike compares the sacraments with Isaac's blessing to Jacob in Genesis 27-28, Job 17-18, and Proverbs 3:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the mystery of our brokenness and habitual sin as he unpacks the story of Esau selling his birthright. Today's readings are Genesis 25-26, Job 15-16, and Proverbs 2:20-22.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read about story of Isaac and Rebekah's marriage and Fr. Mike reflects on God's constant providence in our lives, even when we don't see it. Today's readings are Genesis 24, Job 13-14, and Proverbs 2:16-19.  
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the significance behind sacrifice of Isaac, and why God chose to test Abraham as he reads Genesis 22-23, Job 11-12, and Proverbs 2:9-15.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reads Genesis 20-21, Job 9-10, and Proverbs 2:6-8 and shows us how we can strive for holiness, even in the midst of sin and suffering.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down the story of Sodom and Gomorrah today as we read Genesis 18-19, Job 7-8, and Proverbs 2:1-5. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike zeroes in on the theme of surrender as we discover how God changed Abram to Abraham and Job continues to struggle with his affliction. Today's readings are Genesis 16-17, Job 5-6, and Proverbs 1:20-33. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about the significance of God's covenant with Abram, and how it points to God's immense love for us. Today's readings are Genesis 14-15, Job 3-4, and Proverbs 1:8-19. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reads Genesis 12-13, Job 1-2, and Proverbs 1:1-7 and shows how Abram and Job, despite their brokenness, were able to trust in God.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Congratulations, you've completed the Early World period! As we journey into the Patriarchs period, Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to set the scene. They discuss the themes of Genesis 12-50, how it differs from the first 11 chapters of Genesis, and how it slowly reveals God's plan to redeem mankind. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read about the descendants of Noah, and the story of the Tower of Babel from Genesis 10-11, as well as Psalm 2. Fr. Mike reveals the errors of these characters, and how we also can fall into the same traps.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read Genesis 7-9 and Psalm 1 and Fr. Mike reflects on the covenant God makes with Noah, and how the family of Noah becomes broken. Today's readings contain adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reads Genesis 5-6 and Psalm 136, and explains the significance of Noah's genealogy, why God chose to send a flood, and how we can imitate Noah's choice to follow God when no one else did. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings of Genesis 3-4 and Psalm 104, Fr. Mike draws the connection between love and sacrifice in the story of Adam and Eve and explains the story of Cain and Abel. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to Day 1 of The Bible in a Year! Today we start our year-long journey by reading Genesis 1-2 and Psalm 19. Fr. Mike Schmitz breaks down these readings to discover what the story of creation means for God's plan in your life. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the official start of the Bible in a Year Podcast! We'll begin reading the Bible in the episode "Day 1: In the Beginning", but before we dig into scripture, Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike Schmitz to lay out the context for the Early World period (Genesis 1-11). They discuss the type of scripture we'll encounter (Hebrew poetry) and how that affects our understanding of the Word. This episode is not part of the 365 day reading plan, but is important to help understand the readings from this period. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Congratulations, you have made it to the last day of the Bible in a Year journey! Fr. Mike concludes our journey through the Bible by reflecting on the promise of a new heaven and a new earth in Revelation 21. It is this profound promise that reassures us that Christ is the beginning and the end, the one who makes all things new, the one who wipes away every tear,  the one who conquers death, and the only one who offers us everlasting life, a life without end. Today's readings are Revelation 21-22, Hebrews 11-13, and Proverbs 31:30-31.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we get ready for the Bible in a Year journey, Fr. Mike shares five tips for reading the Bible that will help us to hear God's voice in scripture. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike dives into the fall of Babylon described in Revelation 18, pointing out how several images and expressions of this key chapter are taken from the judgmental oracles in the old testament, particularly those from the prophet Jeremiah. Fr. Mike also emphasizes the reality of God’s judgment, the resurrection of the dead, and how Christ’s sacrifice is presented to God in the heavenly sanctuary once and for all. Today we read Revelation 18-20, Hebrews 9-10, and Proverbs 31:26-29.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Are you getting ready to read the Bible in a year? Fr. Mike shares why it's worth following the Bible in a Year journey and how to prepare for this life-changing adventure. He explains how the reading plan works, how to build a listening habit, and how to persevere along the year when it gets tough. He reminds us that it is our "why" that ultimately shapes our "way" through the Bible.  He also shares practical resources that can help us get the most out of the Bible in a Year journey. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Fr. Mike draws a parallel between the symbols in the book of Revelation and the persecution by the Roman empire of the first Christians and encourages us to hold firm in our faith. Additionally, Fr. Mike reveals the beauty of the new covenant priesthood established by Jesus and explained in Hebrews. Today’s readings are Revelation 15-17, Hebrews 5-8, and Proverbs 31:23-25.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike Schmitz is joined by renowned Catholic Bible scholar Jeff Cavins to talk about The Great Adventure Bible Timeline, their personal experiences with the Bible, and what it means to live life through the lens of Scripture. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike continues to interpret the symbols within Revelation. He compares story of Our Lady of Guadalupe to the woman in Revelation. Fr. Mike provides context to the letter to the Hebrews, a letter that makes the case for Jesus, explaining who he is and the beauty of what he did for us. Today’s readings are Revelation 12-14, Hebrews 1-4, and Proverbs 31:16-18.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike summarizes and contextualizes the book of Philemon, addressing the tension of slavery addressed in the Bible. He provides an explanation on the continued destruction depicted in Revelation as the visions of the apostle John, holding it up to the light of the Gospel. Today’s readings are Revelation 8-11, Philemon, and Proverbs 31:16-18.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike discusses the heavenly throne room seen in our reading from Revelation and our opportunity to be brought into this throne room during every Mass. He also focuses on our ability to glorify God and exalt him into eternity through the righteous deeds we perform on earth. Today’s readings are Revelation 4-7, Titus 1-3, and Proverbs 31:10-15.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin reading from Revelation, Fr. Mike makes us aware of the symbolism found throughout this apocalyptic book and highlights its goal of strengthening the Church through the worship that happens at Mass. He also encourages us to find strength in God when facing challenges, just as Paul did. Today’s readings are Revelation 1-3, 2 Timothy 3-4, and Proverbs 31:8-9.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike leads us through the book of Jude and discusses its main message of calling us to lives of faithfulness. He also contextualizes 2 Timothy by highlighting Paul’s imprisonment and his final message to rekindle the gift of God within us. Today’s readings are from Jude, 2 Timothy 1-2, and Proverbs 31:1-7.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike emphasizes that Christian love isn't just about feelings—it's about living in God's truth by obeying his commandments. Fr. Mike also explains the context for St. Paul's words to St. Timothy about asceticism and caring for widows, and he ends today's reflection by encouraging us to keep fighting the good fight of faith. Today's readings are 2 John, 3 John, 1 Timothy 4-6; Proverbs 30:29-33.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today Fr. Mike reminds us that God created us out of love, for love.  Fr. Mike also points out where the Catholic Church draws her doctrine on the difference between mortal and venial sin, as well as what St. Paul means when he teaches that there is only "one mediator" between God and man. Today's readings are 1 John 4-5, 1 Timothy 1-3, and Proverbs 30: 24-28
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reminds us that, unlike Adam and Eve who gave into "the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life," we are called to surrender our hearts and minds to the Lord and reject the things of this world. Today's readings are 1 John 1-3; 2 Thessalonians 1-3; Proverbs 30:20-23.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the powerful reality that the sacrament of Baptism makes us partakers of God's Divine nature, fundamentally changing us into beloved sons and daughters of God the Father. He also highlights how the second coming of Christ will come like a thief in the night, how Christians grieve with hope, and how we have to test the prophecies we hear from seers.  Today's readings are 2 Peter 1-3, 1 Thessalonians 4-5, and Proverbs 30:17-19.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike shares how verse 1 Peter 3:15 about being ready to give a reason for the faith that is within us has been one of the most influential Bible verses for him. As we start reading 1 Thessalonians today, Fr. Mike also highlights how Paul is encouraged by the faith of the Thessalonians and stresses the importance of not only sharing the gospel but also sharing our very selves. Today's readings are 1 Peter 3-5, 1 Thessalonians 1-3, and Proverbs 30:15-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin reading 1 Peter today, Fr. Mike walks us through Peter's powerful message about persevering in trials, trusting that those sufferings purify our love and faith by teaching us to love God for his own sake and not just the gifts he blesses us with. Finally, as we wrap up Colossians, Fr. Mike highlights St. Paul's call to uphold the obligations we have to others in society, in our family, and in our work.  Today we read 1 Peter 1-2, Colossians 3-4, and Proverbs 30:10-14.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the effects of wealth on our souls and our relationship with God. He emphasizes the importance of resisting the devil and invites us to draw near to God because he is constantly pursuing us, especially as we share in his suffering. Today’s readings are James 3-5, Colossians 1-2, and Proverbs 30:7-9.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today’s episode, Fr. Mike provides the context and background of the letter of James. Fr. Mike unpacks the beautiful truths contained in the letter of James, including a discussion of faith and works and addressing the importance of demonstrating our intrinsic belonging to the Lord through our actions. Today’s readings are James 1-2, Philippians 3-4, and Proverbs 30:1-6.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we conclude the book of Acts, and Fr. Mike reflects on our deep conviction to be the Church by serving all in the world, furthuring St. Paul’s legacy of ordinary service, a willingness to share the gospel, and a dedication to following God’s will. Today’s readings are Acts 28, Philippians 1-2, and Proverbs 29:25-27.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights a secret to holiness visible in Paul’s ability to see his arduous trip to Rome as the will of God. He also clears up confusion in regards to Paul’s direction for wives to be subject to their husbands, again drawing our attention to our call to love and serve while being subject to each other out of reverence for Christ. Today’s readings are Acts 27, Ephesians 4-6, and Proverbs 29:22-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike outlines Paul’s trial before King Agrippa and his efforts to use his conversion story to convert those hearing his case. He also leads us through the first half of Ephesians, emphasizing Paul’s main theme of unity in the spirit. Today’s readings are from Acts 26, Ephesians 1-3, and Proverbs 29:18-21.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reminds us of the context of Galatians and reiterates Paul’s admonition not to revert to our previous ways of life now that we have been freed from the yoke of slavery. He also discusses the works of the flesh which separate us from Christ and the fruits of the spirit which result from a life lived in God, reminding us that we will reap what we sow in due season. Today’s readings are Acts 25, Galatians 4-6, and Proverbs 29:15-17.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In Acts 24, Fr. Mike notes how Felix remained unmoved by Paul's teaching despite being compelled by it initially, showing us that unless we act on what we believe, there is no change. As we begin reading St.Paul's letter to the Galatians today, Fr. Mike highlights Paul's explanation of the role of Jewish law in the Age of the Church,  clarifying that through baptism, we are all one in Christ and heirs to the promises of the Father regardless of our backgrounds. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike recaps Paul's trial before the chief priests and the plot to kill him in Acts 23. As we conclude 2 Corinthians today, Fr. Mike reflects on the thorn in Paul's side, a weakness that he struggled with and begged God to take away. Fr. Mike invites us to reflect on our own thorn that God doesn't seem to take away, and to remember that God's grace is sufficient for us. Today's readings are Acts 23, 2 Corinthians 12-13, and Proverbs 29:8-11.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In Acts 22, Paul's testimony falls on hostile Roman ears, and he narrowly escapes scourging by way of his Roman citizenship. Reflecting on this incident, Fr. Mike reminds us that God uses Paul's past to further his ministry, and that God does the same with each of us, today. Commenting on today's readings from 2 Corinthians, Fr. Mike highlights that we are called to be cheerful givers and disciplined thinkers. He also points out that, as Paul reminds us, the most important ministry credential is to be called by God and equipped by his grace. Today's readings are Acts 22, 2 Corinthians 9-11, and Proverbs 29:5-7. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike comments on the growing divide between Judaism and Christianity that Paul experiences on mission in Acts 21. In 2 Corinthians, Fr. Mike explains the difference between Godly grief that brings us to repentance, and worldly grief that leads us to destruction. We also learn about the importance of imitating the generosity of Christ. Today's readings are Acts 21, 2 Corinthians 6-8, and Proverbs 29:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In our reading of Acts 20,  Fr. Mike reflects on the healing of Eutychus, Paul's willingness to suffer for the sake of the Gospel, and Paul's tender affection for the people he ministered to. In 2 Corinthians, Fr. Mike also highlights Paul's encouragement to hold onto the hope of beholding the glory of God with unveiled faces and to persevere in our afflictions as they prepare for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. Today's readings are Acts 20, 2 Corinthians 3-5, and Proverbs 28:25-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike emphasizes the power of the Holy Spirit exemplified in Paul's interaction with those in Ephesus in Acts 19 and reminds us that God wants to fill  each of us with the same Holy Spirit so we can walk in his strength.  Fr. Mike also highlights the power of sacramentals, the reality of demons acknowledging Jesus, and the importance of removing things in our lives that are harmful. Lastly, as we begin reading the Second Letter of Paul to the Corinthians, we get a glimpse of Paul's heart for the people of Corinth. Today's readings are Acts 19, 2 Corinthians 1-2, and Proverbs 28:22-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reminds us that God uses crooked lines to make a straight story, like Paul’s witness to Priscilla and Aquila as they encounter the person of Christ and become missionaries. Just like Apollos accepted correction, Fr. Mike invites us to courageously open ourselves up to learning and growing. Today’s readings are Acts 18, 1 Corinthians 16, and Proverbs 28:19-21.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue along the path of our forefathers in faith, Fr. Mike reminds us that we live in the same era as the Apostles and have the same Holy Spirit. Just like St. Paul stood out by imitating Jesus and sharing the Gospel, we are called to do the same. Fr. Mike also discusses our duality as both body and soul as it relates to Christ’s resurrection. Today’s readings are Acts 17, 1 Corinthians 15, and Proverbs 28:16-18.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike unpacks the events in Acts 16, describing Paul’s trust in the Lord as God frees him from prison. He connects St. Paul’s conversation about spiritual gifts to the well-known “love” chapter in 1 Corinthians, explaining how love and donation of self gives purpose to the spiritual gifts. Today’s readings are Acts 16, 1 Corinthians 13-14, and Proverbs 28:13-15.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike walks us through the Church’s first council in Acts 15 and highlights the importance of the Church’s authority in the question of circumcision for Gentile converts. He also draws our attention to Paul’s treatment of God the Father and God the Son as equal but not the same. This sheds light on Paul’s conversation about head coverings for women in our reading from 1 Corinthians and reassures female believers about their roles in marriage and the Church. Today’s readings are Acts 15, 1 Corinthians 11-12, Proverbs 28:10-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue to follow the missions of Paul and Barnabas, Fr. Mike highlights the fickle nature of humanity and the futility of striving for the praise of men. He also encourages us to remain courageous in the tribulations we face, finding strength in other believers, and running toward the eternal and imperishable goal of salvation. Today’s readings are Acts 14, 1 Corinthians 9-10, and Proverbs 28:7-9.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the importance of prayer and fasting, instructing us how to fast and empty ourselves to feel our spiritual need for Christ. He also discusses faithfulness in vocations and living out the life God has called you to as the path to holiness. Today’s readings are from Acts 13, 1 Corinthians 7-8, and Proverbs 28:4-6.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today begins with Acts 12 and the miraculous rescue of Peter from prison by an angel. Reflecting on this story, Fr. Mike helps us grapple with the mysterious reality that we are each called to say "Yes" to God’s destination for us, even when we might not know the way. Lastly, Fr. Mike delves into St. Paul's hard teachings to the Corinthians on sexuality morality and excommunication. Today's readings are Acts 12, 1 Corinthians 5-6, and Proverbs 28:1-3.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike begins by explaining the confusion experienced by the early Christians as they struggle to integrate the Gentiles into the Church. We also hear more about Barnabas, missionary companion of St. Paul, who was named by God as the "Son of Encouragement." Lastly, Fr. Mike delves into the history surrounding paganism and hedonism in pre-Christian Corinth and the need to encourage the Greeks to leave their old ways of worship. Today's readings are Acts 11, 1 Corinthians 3-4, Proverbs  27:23-27.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today’s reading from Acts, the Holy Spirit guides Peter to initiate ministry to the Gentiles, beginning with the family of Cornelius, a Roman centurion. Upon hearing Peter preach, Cornelius’ entire household receive the Holy Spirit and are baptized. Commenting on today's second reading from 1 Corinthians, Fr. Mike reminds us to pursue Christian unity and avoid the dissension and infighting we see in the Church of Corinth. Today's readings are Acts 10, 1 Corinthians 1-2, Proverbs 27:21-22. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down Saul's miraculous conversion, explaining the significance of Jesus sending Ananias to heal Saul, and how it reveals that Jesus works through his Church just as powerfully as he worked through the incarnation. Fr. Mike also reminds us that if we belong to the Lord, we will have to participate in his suffering. Lastly, as we conclude St. Paul's letter to the Romans, Fr. Mike leaves us with the exhortation that the Gospel advances primarily through family and friendship. Today's readings are  Acts 9, Romans 15-16, and Proverbs 27:18-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on the story of Philip and the Ethiopian Eunuch and how it demonstrates the importance of having guidance when reading Scripture. Although God's Word is infallible, we can easily misunderstand it without proper interpretation, which is why we have the Magisterium of the Church.  Lastly, Fr. Mike also touches on the role of persecution in the life of the Church, and St. Paul's encouragement to abide by the law of love. Today we read Acts 8, Romans 13-14, and Proverbs 27:15-17.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on Stephen's heroic martyrdom and points out how those around him refused to hear him and hardened their hearts, something we too can do with the Word of God. In the book of Romans, Fr. Mike also highlights the importance of offering our bodies as a living sacrifice, responding to the call to love and to not be conformed to this world, and remembering that Christians have been grafted onto the tree of Israel. Today we read Acts 7, Romans 11-12, and Proverbs 27:13-14. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike draws our attention to the cultural division present in the early Church and the origin of the ordination to the diaconate. He also discusses Paul’s frustration with those who didn’t recognize Jesus as the Christ and offers consolation to those who experience this in the hearts and minds of those close to them, as Paul did. Today’s readings are Acts 6, Romans 9-10, and Proverbs 27:10-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike discusses the ministry of the apostles and encourages us to allow God to work in our lives in the same way. He also reminds us that through Baptism, we are set free from our fallen human nature and given the freedom to live according to the spirit. Today’s readings are from Acts 5, Romans 8, and Proverbs 27:7-9.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the boldness of Peter and John in our reading from Acts as they stand before the council of church leaders and defend the name of Jesus. He also addresses Paul’s writings on God’s grace given to us in our sinfulness and the war between good and evil present within ourselves. Today’s readings are Acts 4, Romans 6-7, and Proverbs 27:4-6.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In Acts 3, Peter used God’s gift of healing to allow God to restore a lame man. Fr. Mike reminds us that God gives us gifts so he can be known in the world and all great miracles are attributed to the name of Jesus. Fr. Mike also tells us why our suffering matters, and how God wastes nothing. Today’s readings are Acts 3, Romans 4-5, and Proverbs 27:1-3.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike shares the powerful story of the Holy Spirit coming upon the apostles in the upper room. He emphasizes how God calls us to go out into the world with his Spirit and live in community and with devotion to the apostles’ teaching, fellowship, the Eucharist, and prayer just like the first Christians. Today’s readings are Acts 2, Romans 2-3, and Proverbs 26:27-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, we begin the age of the church, transitioning from the Gospel of Luke to the beginning of the book of Acts. Fr. Mike draws our attention to the Ascension of Jesus and encourages us to respond to Christ’s call to participate in his mission. He invites us to be part of his story and not be ashamed of the Gospel. Today’s readings are Acts 1, Romans 1, and Proverbs 26:24-26.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to The Church period! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to discuss the final time period of the Bible Timeline. They discuss the historical context of the early Church, why Rome and the early martyrs are so significant, and how the Holy Spirit takes on a major role. They also explain the differences between Acts, the epistles, and the book of Revelation. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights how Jesus didn't pray in order get something from God, he prayed in order to be close to God. He also points to Jesus' prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane as a perfect example of how we should pray with honesty and trust. Lastly, Fr. Mike provides insights on the significance of the walk to Emmaus and Jesus' last words on the cross. The readings are Luke 22:39-24 and Proverbs 26:20-23.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we draw near to the end of the Gospel of Luke, Fr. Mike briefly expands on the story of the poor widow’s offering, emphasizing that the Lord cares more about the size of our hearts than about the size of our gifts. Fr. Mike also underscores Jesus’ moving words to Peter when he foretells Peter’s denial. Jesus’ words remind us that no matter how fiercely the enemy tries to attack us, he is always praying for each and every one of us. Today's readings are Luke 20-22:38 and Proverbs 26:17-19.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr, Mike compares the story of the rich young man to the story of Zacchaeus, highlighting the difference in their willingness to follow Christ with their whole hearts. Looking at the stories of these young men, Fr. Mike invites us to reflect on our willingness to follow Christ with all that we are and all that we have. Today we read Luke 17-19 and Proverbs 26:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike confronts the hard truth Jesus preaches in today's readings: Many people will ultimately choose hell over heaven. While this can be deeply distressing, Fr. Mike reminds us to focus on Jesus's directive to each one of us: "[You] Strive to enter through the narrow gate." In the second part of today's commentary, Fr. Mike reflects on two of Jesus' most well-known parables: the parable of the Lost Sheep and the parable of the Prodigal Son. Today's readings are Luke 13-16 and Proverbs 26:10-12. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the goodness and providence of God the Father, emphasizing how Jesus calls us to be shamelessly persistent in prayer. Fr. Mike also explains two difficult passages found in today's readings: what Jesus means when he tells the story of an unclean spirit who is cast out only to return, and what Jesus means when he says he comes not to bring peace but division. Today's readings are Luke 11-12 and Proverbs 26:7-9.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike discusses our call to deny ourselves and take up our cross, specifically focusing on God’s call to renounce all that is ours and trust in him. He also highlights the story of Mary and Martha and encourages us not to allow the cares of life to choke the life of God out of our lives as Martha allowed her troubles and anxieties to do. Today’s readings are from Luke 9-10 and Proverbs 26:4-6.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In light of a series of miracles in our readings for today, Fr. Mike focuses on our Lord’s compassion and our call to be merciful, as he is. He emphasizes the beauty of God’s mercy and his offering of it despite our unworthiness. He also strikes a balance between the goodness of humanity as God’s creation and our brokenness due to original sin. Today’s readings are Luke 6-8 and Proverbs 26:1-3.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike elaborates on the significance of the Baptism of Jesus in the Jordan River.  He points out that the location of the Jordan River is particualry noteworthy because it's the same river that Joshua crossed over to lead the Israelites into the Promised Land, signifying that Jesus will bring about a new exodus. Additionally, it's the lowest spot on the planet, symbolizing Jesus' humility. Finally, Fr. Mike emphasizes that when we are baptized, we are adopted as beloved sons and daughters of God because what belongs to Jesus by his nature is given to us by God’s grace. Today we read Luke 3-5 and Proverbs 25:27-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin reading the Gospel of Luke, Fr. Mike draws our attention to Mary. He clarifies the difference between Zechariah's response and Mary's response to the angel Gabriel, and also explains why Mary is the Ark of the new Covenant. We learn that through Mary, God begins to fulfill his promises to the people of Israel. Today's readings are Luke 1-2, and Proverbs 25:24-26.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the last Messianic Checkpoint! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the Gospel of Luke and highlight the distinctive aspects of this synoptic Gospel. We learn that the Gospel of Luke uniquely captures the humanity of Jesus, the role of women, Jesus' frequent engagement with individuals on the margins, and the mystery of the Ascension. 
This episode was sponsored by Hallow,  the largest and fastest growing Catholic App in the world. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr Mike celebrates the accomplishment of reading the entire Old Testament and wraps up the books of 2 Maccabees and Wisdom, talking through the key themes of the Old Testament visible in the conclusions to these books. He also discusses the motivation of the Maccabees to defend the temple and maintain its purity as well as uphold God’s honor. Today’s readings are from 2 Maccabees 15, Wisdom 19, and Proverbs 25:21-23.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we get closer to the end of the Old Testament, Fr. Mike highlights one of the lessons we've seen time and time again—that God continues to fight for each of us, despite the brokenness and messiness of our lives. He also points out how the reading from Wisdom foreshadows the coming of Jesus. The readings are 2 Maccabees 14, Wisdom 17-18, and Proverbs 25:18-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out how easy it is to take good things and make idols out of them, setting them up as God's rivals for our hearts. We can discover these rivals by noticing the things we prioritize over spending time with God. The readings are 2 Maccabees 13, Wisdom 15-16, and Proverbs 25:15-17.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down the doctrine of purgatory as we read about Judas Maccabeus and his army praying for the dead in 2 Maccabees 12. We learn that purgatory is a process of purification that our hearts need in order to be ready to love God and to enter into his presence. In our reading of Wisdom today, Fr. Mike emphasizes the insanity of worshipping idols and how it's more tempting to make idols out of good things rather than evil things. Today's readings are 2 Maccabees 12, Wisdom 13-14, and Proverbs 25:11-14.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights how God fights as a heavenly ally with the people of Israel in 2 Maccabees 11, and encourages us to actively fight alongside God in our daily battles. In our reading of Wisdom, Father points out how God corrects us little by little so we can learn to trust him. Today’s readings are 2 Maccabees 11, Wisdom 11-12, and Proverbs 25:8-10.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, Fr. Mike discusses the confidence that faith in God can provide as we fight the battles of our lives. He also engages with the riddles found in Wisdom 10 and points out that we can now not only understand the characters, stories, and allusions of Scripture, but can recognize the fingerprints of God in the world around us and better understand the main character of Scripture: God. Today’s readings are 2 Maccabees 10, Wisdom 9-10, and Proverbs 25:4-7.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike draws our attention to the descriptions of wisdom found in our readings for today and reflects on the beauty of wisdom’s feminine nature. He also discusses the death of Antiochus Epiphanes and offers two perspectives on reconciling God’s role in suffering. Today’s readings are from 2 Maccabees 9, Wisdom 7-8, and Proverbs 25:1-3.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we hear the re-telling of the story of Judas Maccabbeus and his brothers fighting for the honor of the Lord's Temple in 2 Maccabees, Fr. Mike points out how this version gives us an insight into their recognition of God's presence, mercy, and justice in their circumstances. We learn that no matter what we are going through, we can trust that God is our great defender who is present and active in all circumstances of our lives. Today's readings are 2 Maccabees 8, Wisdom 5-6, and Proverbs 24:30-34.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on the powerful theme that connects all of our readings today- the reality of life beyond death. In the story of the martyrdom of the seven brothers in 2 Macabees, we see how the brothers and their mother fiercely reject the temptation to violate God's law, and boldly hold onto their hope in the resurrection of the dead. Our readings from Wisdom also remind us that death is not the end, because we know that eternal life is waiting for us beyond death. Today's readings are 2 Maccabees 7, Wisdom 3-4, and Proverbs 24:27-29.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike offers a recap of Eleazar's martyrdom and marvels at Eleazar's courage to avoid both sin, and the temptation to  lead others into sin.  As we begin reading the book of Wisdom today, we also learn three valuable lessons;  God did not create death, death entered the world through sin, and we are wise when we walk in the truth but foolish when we walk in evil. Today's readings are 2 Maccabees 6, Wisdom 1-2, and Proverbs 24:21-26.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike concludes the book of Sirach today and encourages us to continue the pursuit of wisdom. In our reading of 2 Maccabees, we see again the pillage of the Temple and we are re- introduced to Judas Maccabeus. Lastly, in Proverbs Fr. Mike encourages us to resist the temptation to rejoice when our enemies fall. Today’s readings are 2 Maccabees 5, Sirach 50-51, and Proverbs 24:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin to wrap up the Old Testament, Fr. Mike reflects on our reading from Sirach and what we have already learned on this journey through the Bible. He emphasizes that Scripture encourages us to rise again from our sin and return to God, because our God always picks us up again with his mercy. Today’s readings are 2 Maccabees 4, Sirach 47-49, and Proverbs 24:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike provides context to the God-centered perspective of 2 Maccabees and compares it to the more secular perspective provided by 1 Maccabees. He challenges us to reflect on our days with the lens of 2 Maccabees - acknowledging God’s presence in each moment of our story. Additionally, Fr. Mike shares the miraculous conversion story of St. Mary of Egypt. Today’s readings are 2 Maccabees 3, Sirach 45-46, and Proverbs 24:10-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike discusses the story of Jeremiah and the Ark of the Covenant, offering insight on where it was hidden and how that affected the people of God. He also looks ahead to the rest of 2 Maccabees and poses a question for all of us: What will the people who love us remember about us? Today’s readings are  2 Maccabees 2, Sirach 42-44, and Proverbs 24:8-9.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike gives us context for the beginning of 2 Maccabees and recounts the story of Nehemiah’s discovery of the sacred fire. He also offers a reflection for those struggling with grief and death, which serves as a reminder to all about the blessing of our lives and the lives of those we love. Today’s readings are 2 Maccabees 1, Sirach 40-41, and Proverbs 24:1-7.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read from Proverbs and Sirach, Fr. Mike points out how everything God has made is good, but we can use those things for evil ends. We also reach the conclusion of 1 Maccabees today. The readings are 1 Maccabees 16, Sirach 38-39, and Proverbs 23:29-35.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin to wrap up 1 Maccabees, Fr. Mike directs our attention to how 2 Maccabees will tell the same story in a different way. In Sirach, we are encouraged to know our own hearts, so that we can know our strengths, weaknesses, and where we might need healing. The readings are 1 Maccabees 15, Sirach 36-37, and Proverbs 23:26-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike mirrors the story of 1 Maccabees and Israel’s expectations of continued success onto our own lives, emphasizing that God’s marvelous plan exceeds our expectations and what we think should happen next in our lives. He invites us to worship and give to the Lord with freedom and generosity in response to God’s sacrificial love for us. Today’s readings are 1 Maccabees 14, Sirach 34-35, and Proverbs 23:22-25.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In our reading of 1 Maccabees today, Fr. Mike highlights the the establishment of the new independent sovereign nation of Israel in the land of Judah. We learn how Simon takes command and enforces the law all around the land.  Fr. Mike reminds us that even today, Christians are governed by Jesus himself and ultimately to belong to him. Today's readings are 1 Maccabees 13, Sirach 32-33, and Proverbs 23:17-21.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on the theme of disciplining children, reflected in our readings from Sirach and Proverbs today. He clarifies that there is a crucial difference between discipline and destruction, and emphasizes that disciplining children should always be grounded in love and oriented towards their success in the future. Today's readings 1 Maccabees 12, Sirach 30-31, and Proverbs 23:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue our journey in 1 Maccabees, Fr. Mike explains that this book of the Bible is unlike others because it narrates stories and events without providing any interpretation.  In Sirach, Fr. Mike stresses the teaching on the power of our words and the gravity of gossip and slander. Today's readings are 1 Maccabees 11, Sirach 28-29, and Proverbs 23:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down the dramatic events from our reading of 1 Maccabees today, including; Jonathan's new role as high priest, Demetrius' defeat in battle, and King Alexander Epiphanes formidable alliance with Egypt formed by marrying Cleopatra. In Sirach, Fr. Mike reminds us that the good qualities wives are called to possess are also applicable to husbands. Today we read 1 Maccabees 10, Sirach 26-27, and Proverbs 23:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike guides us through Judas Maccabeus' last battle, his death, and his succession. We learn that part of Judas and Jonathan's victory involved fighting fellow Jews living in the land who were not living according to God's laws. Fr. Mike points out that when the enemy is in the inside, it is especially heartbreaking. Today's readings are 1 Maccabees 9, Sirach 24-25, and Proverbs 23:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike contextualizes our readings from 1 Maccabees today which covers the  beginning of Roman rule over the Jewish people. Additionally, he emphasizes the wisdom from Sirach about surrounding ourselves with influences that lead us closer to God and help us grow in holiness. Today’s readings are 1 Maccabees 8, Sirach 22-23, and Proverbs 22:26-29.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the importance of wisdom in our everyday lives when we face temptations to gossip, encouraging us in the battle for virtue, wisdom, and goodness. He emphasizes that we must ask the Lord for his wisdom to guide us as we interact with the people around us, just like the Jews prayed before battle. Today’s readings are 1 Maccabees 7, Sirach 19-21, and Proverbs 22:22-25.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike illustrates the story of Eleazar and the abandonment of peace terms between the Jews and the Greeks. He also recognizes the pain that children and family members who don’t follow the Lord can bring about, and uses wisdom from Sirach to address this prevalent struggle. Today’s readings are 1 Maccabees 6, Sirach 16-18, and Proverbs 22:17-21.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike walks us through the current battles of Judas Maccabeus and the Israelite people, emphasizing that while war is violent, freedom to belong to God and worship him is worth fighting for. He also discusses the importance of spending time with virtuous people to acquire their positive qualities and the need to seek good rather than evil to attain the riches of heaven. Today’s readings are from 1 Maccabees 5, Sirach 13-15, and Proverbs 22:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's reading from 1 Maccabees, we hear about the victory of Judas Maccabeus, which is also the story of Hanukkah. In Sirach, Fr. Mike points out that chasing fame and glory in this world are not worth our time, because they will all fade away after we are gone. The readings are 1 Maccabees 4, Sirach 10-12, and Proverbs 22:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out how advice from books like Proverbs and Sirach may not apply perfectly to every situation, but are meant to help guide us towards wisdom. He also highlights a piece from Sirach that encourages us to avoid "deserted places"—calling us not only to stay away from sin, but to stay away from what leads us to sin. The readings are 1 Maccabees 3, Sirach 7-9, and Proverbs 22:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike clarifies the meaning behind Mattathias' zealous attack against the Greeks and his fellow Jews who were not obeying God's laws. From our reading of Sirach, Fr. Mike reminds us to remember the needs of the poor, and to be careful when forming friendships. Today's readings are 1 Maccabees 2, Sirach 4-6, and Proverbs 22:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin reading from 1 Maccabees today, Fr. Mike highlights the severe persecution against the Jews and the desecration of the Temple led by Antiochus Epiphanes. We also start our journey in the book of Sirach today and learn about the fear of the Lord, clinging to the Lord in trials, and the importance of honoring our parents. Today's readings are 1 Maccabees 1, Sirach 1-3, and Proverbs 21:29-31.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the Maccabean Revolt period! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the tenth biblical period in our journey, which begins with the Greek oppression of the Jews under Antiochus Epiphanes, and ends with Herodian rule of the Holy Land. Jeff and Fr. Mike walk us through the key events of this period, highlighting the zealous response of the Maccabean family, the celebration of Hanukkah, and the heroic martyrdom of Jews who would not betray their religious identity in the midst of persecution. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike summarizes the final moments of the book of Nehemiah, when Nehemiah returns to find the people of Israel being unfaithful to God’s commandments and marrying foreign wives. Fr. Mike connects this to our lives, as we too often confuse God’s unending love for us to mean that he always wants what we want.Today’s readings are Nehemiah 13, Malachi 1-4, and Proverbs 21: 25-28. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike concludes the book of Esther and the book of Nehemiah by reflecting on the journey and resilience of the Jewish people thus far in the story of salvation.Fr. Mike explains how, in our lives, we don’t always know how God is going to show up, but we know that he will be faithful. Today’s readings are Nehemiah 12, Esther 9-11, and Proverbs 21:21-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike offers a brief recap of today’s chapter from Nehemiah, identifying the difference between those who were able to live in Jerusalem and those who were not. He explains the ancestral gifts that each tribe of Israel received and applies this concept to the vices and virtues of our families, as well as our freedom to adopt or reject them. Today we read from Nehemiah 11, Esther 8, 16, and Proverbs 21:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike walks us through the signing of the covenant in Nehemiah 10 and relates Israel’s collective decision to belong to God to our personal encounters with God that inspire us to follow him simply because he has called us. He also offers insight on how God used the physical weakness of Esther to move the king’s heart to gentleness. Today’s readings are Nehemiah 10, Esther 15, 6-7, and Proverbs 21:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today's readings remind us that all good things come from God, and he calls us to specific places and times for a reason. In the book of Esther, Fr. Mike points out that Esther was perfectly positioned to fulfill God's will. We too, can examine our lives and realize that there are places God has brought us, "for such a time as this". The readings are Nehemiah 9, Esther 4 and 14, and Proverbs 21:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As Fr. Mike reads from Nehemiah today, we hear about how the hearts of the people of Israel were moved as Ezra reads the book of the law of Moses to them. In our reading of Esther, we have the beginning of the crisis that will unfold throughout the book as Haman, backed by the king, seeks to destroy the Jews.  Today’s readings are Nehemiah 8, Esther 3 and 13, and Proverbs 21:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike continues reading from the book of Nehemiah and highlights the many attempts to prevent Nehemiah from doing the great work of God. We also read about the events that lead to Esther being chosen as queen and the goodness she will bring even in the midst of a broken system.  Today’s readings are Nehemiah 6-7, Esther 1-2, and Proverbs 21:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike continues to describe Nehemiah’s process of rebuilding the wall of Jerusalem and encountering a variety of challenges in his calling. He explains that in doing God's work,  we will often face internal or external opposition which we must meet with prayer and perseverance, trusting God entirely. Today’s readings are Nehemiah 4-5, Esther 11-12, and Proverbs 20:27-30.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike continues discussing the call of Nehemiah and how we should approach the work the Lord calls us to do. He explains why all work is divine participation in God’s Kingdom on earth and encourages us to remember our service to God and to others, keeping our focus on serving and loving in the realm of our influence.  Today’s readings are Nehemiah 3, Zechariah 14, and Proverbs 20:23-26.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike introduces the book of Nehemiah and takes us through Nehemiah’s exemplary response to the call of God as he does what God asks simply because he asks. He also encourages us to pray for our enemies and explains the need to refrain from vengeance in our interactions with others, especially when we are provoked by their actions. Today’s readings are Nehemiah 1-2, Zechariah 12-13, and Proverbs 20:20-22.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike discusses God’s instruction to the people of Israel not to marry women from foreign lands. He explains why God would provide this instruction and how Ezra reacted when he discovered that many prominent Israelites had not obeyed it. He also identifies the prophecies of Palm Sunday and the thirty pieces of silver found in Zechariah. Today’s readings are Ezra 9-10, Zechariah 9-11, and Proverbs 20:16-19.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how God’s favor was with  Ezra because he set his heart to study God's laws, to obey his laws, and to teach his laws to others. We also learn about hypocritical fasting, and how our sacrifices should remind us that everything ultimately belongs to God at all times. Today's readings are Ezra 7-8, Zechariah 7-8, and Proverbs 20:12-15.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike encourages us not to be discouraged about the small things happening in our lives, because just as we see through Zechariah's visions, God takes small things and turns them into great triumphs. He also touches on the dedication of Israel to rebuild the temple, and the connection between the crowing of Joshua and the crowning of Christ the King. Today's readings are Ezra 5-6, Zechariah 4-6, and Proverbs 20:8-11.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike continues to take us through the rebuilding of the temple in Jerusalem, and the importance of moving on from the past to see what God is doing in our lives right now. He also gives some context on the Samaritans and what was happening across Jerusalem, post return. Today's readings are Ezra 3-4, Zechariah 1-3, and Proverbs 20:4-7.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike introduces us to the books of Ezra and Haggai, explaining the Israelites' return to the promised land. He also warns us against apathy and indifference in our relationship with God, as we see Israel display towards the temple. Today's readings are Ezra 1-2, Haggai 1-2, and Proverbs 20:1-3.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the Return period! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the ninth biblical period, which covers the Israelites' return to Jerusalem, the rise of the Pharisees, and the establishment of common household practices. They explain the pattern of exiles and returns throughout the Bible, starting with Exodus and leading all the way to Jesus' ministry. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue through this year-long journey Fr. Mike and Jeff Cavins offer some words of encouragement for those who might be struggling. No matter if you're listening consistently or if you're "behind", the Lord will meet you where you're at in scripture.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we finish the Gospel of Matthew, Fr. Mike takes us through Christ's passion, explaining the meaning of "Barabbas", the importance of saints, and temptation towards false truth. He also explains the context of the gospels, and how we fit into them in the new and eternal covenant. Today's readings are Matthew 27-28 and Proverbs 19:25-29.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains sins of omission, and how these are some of the biggest deciding factors of who goes to heaven and who goes to hell: whether or not we did good works God called us to. He also reminds us that not all of the New Testament parables are universally relevant, recalling the parable of the talents and the parable of the wise and foolish maidens. Today's readings are Matthew 25-26 and Proverbs 19:21-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike continues to explain the parables Christ recites in Jerusalem, specifically focusing on the dangers of preaching God's Word without practicing it in our lives. Jesus goes on to speak against the Scribes and Pharisees, reminding us that he's not only the Prince of Peace, but the Way and the Truth. Today's readings are Matthew 22-24 and Proverbs 19:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike takes us through various parables in Matthew such as the parable of the lost sheep, the merciful servant, and the laborers in the vineyard. He invites us not to be envious when others are blessed, but to allow the Father to be generous. Today's readings are Matthew 18-21, and Proverbs 19:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read about the many miracles Jesus performs in today's readings from Matthew, Fr. Mike asserts the objective reality of those miracles and reinforces that Jesus is truly the Son of God who has power over matter. We learn that in Jesus, we too can do things that we could never do on our own. Today's readings are Matthew 14-17, and Proverbs 19:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the many parables we hear today in Matthew, including the return of the unclean spirit, and the danger of ornate souls. He emphasizes that when God sweeps the sin out of our souls, we must replace it with virtue, otherwise our souls remain empty without a relationship with God. Today's readings are Matthew 11-13 and Proverbs 19:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reinforces Jesus' divinity as we read about how Jesus heals people physically, mentally, and spiritually and frees them from the enemy's kingdom of darkness. Fr. Mike also encourages us to not be afraid when we experience persecution and division for the sake of Christ, but to rather courageously carry the Cross. 
ersecutions. Today's readings are Matthew 8-10, and Proverbs 19:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reads the Sermon on the Mount and explains how Jesus' teachings powerfully fulfill the old testament law, and identify the broken human heart as the source of our sinful actions. We learn that Jesus himself is the remedy to our sins, and that the secret to holiness is living in the perfect will of God. Today's readings are Matthew 5-7, and Proverbs 18:21-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike introduces us to the Gospel of Matthew, including his genealogy, nativity, and the first days of his ministry. He pulls it all together to show that not only is Jesus reconstituting the kingdom in his ministry, but he's inviting us to join him in this kingdom. Today’s readings are Matthew 1-4, and Proverbs 18:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the third Messianic Checkpoint! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the Gospel of Matthew and explain what makes this gospel unique, particularly its emphasis on Jesus' call to discipleship, which continues to apply to all of us today. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike finishes the book of Jeremiah and highlights the final moment of hope at the conclusion.  We also read the book of Obadiah and Fr. Mike challenges us to see who the Lord is asking us to choose to love, noting that it might may be someone who is closer to us than we think. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 52, Obadiah 1, and Proverbs 18:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike encourages us to never stop talking to God, even in the hardest seasons of our lives. Much like yesterday's readings, we're seeing a lot of pain and suffering the lives of our brothers and sisters, but we still have so much to hope for. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 51, Lamentations 4-5, and Proverbs 18:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike guides us through another chapter of Jeremiah and connects it to the sorrow and pain we hear in Lamentations. He reminds us that, even with such evil and desperation filing the world these days, God is still good, and we still have reason to hope in him. Today's readings are Jeremiah 49-50, Lamentations 3, and Proverbs 18:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike continues reading from the book of Jeremiah and emphasizes God’s judgment against the nations surrounding Israel. Fr. Mike also invites us to meditate on the words of the prophets and repent for our own failures and shortcomings. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 47-48, Lamentations 2, and Proverbs 18:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As Fr. Mike begins the book of Lamentations, we read about Jeremiah’s sorrow as he witnesses the siege and suffering of Jerusalem. In the book of Jeremiah, we hear a word of comfort from the Lord to Baruch. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 45-46, Lamentations 1, and Proverbs 17:21-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out Israel's continual disbelief in the prophet Jeremiah, and also explains who the queen of heaven refers to. We also conclude the book of Judith with Judith's song of praise. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 43-44, Judith 15-16, and Proverbs 17:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In our reading of Jeremiah today, Fr. Mike highlights Ishmael’s insurrection against Gedaliah and Jeremiah’s response. We also read about the defeat of Holofernes and the praise of Judith for her courage and virtue. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 41-42, Judith 12-14, and Proverbs 17:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike expands on our reading today from Proverbs about the need to guard our speech toward one another. In Jeremiah, we see the final wave of destruction of Jerusalem and the events that followed. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 39-40, Judith 10-11, and Proverbs 17:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the wisdom and faith of Judith, heroine of the Old Testament, and shows us how her prayer in not just a prayer of intercession, but also one of praise. The readings are Jeremiah 37-38, Judith 8-9, and Proverbs 17:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out how, like King Jehoiakim, we too can dismiss God's teachings instead of letting them cut into our hearts. The readings are Jeremiah 35-36, Judith 6-7, and Proverbs 17:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out the difference between the insincere repentance of King Zedekiah and the people in Jerusalem, and the true repentance of the people in the Book of Judith. The readings are Jeremiah 33-34, Judith 3-5, and Proverbs 16:29-33.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's reading from Jeremiah, Fr. Mike points out how God rejoices in doing us good, and wants to pour out his grace and mercy upon us. As we begin reading from Judith, he explains that, while it might not be historically accurate, the story is there to convey truth. The readings are Jeremiah 32, Judith 1-2, and Proverbs 16:25-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike takes us through the last chapter of Daniel and explains how Daniel models for us on how to live in exile and still be faithful to the Lord. We also see in Jeremiah the Lord promise a new covenant that will ultimately be fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 31, Daniel 14, and Proverbs 16:21-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the story of Susanna's righteousness in the book of Daniel. While celebrating Susanna's virtue, Daniel's wisdom, and God's faithfulness, Fr. Mike also warns us that, like the corrupt elders in the story, we too can allow our hearts to become perverted by the things we fix our eyes on. The readings are Jeremiah 30, Daniel 12-13, and Proverbs 16:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights verse 11 from Jeremiah 29: "I know the plans I have for you...plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope." Since we know God is a good Father, we too can count on this promise, and know that God has a plan for each of us. The reading are Jeremiah 28-29, Daniel 10-11, and Proverbs 16:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why God asks his people to surrender to king Nebuchadnezzar even though it seems contradicting. We learn that God can use evil circumstances to win the hearts of his people back. In Daniel, as we read about the vision of the ram and the goat, Fr. Mike reminds us that prophecy is always shrouded in mystery. Today we read Jeremiah 26-27, Daniel 8-9, and Proverbs 16:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read the epic story of Daniel in the den of lions, Fr. Mike points out Daniel's valor and faithfulness in the midst of his powerless. We also learn what the four beasts in Daniel's vision of the four beasts and the ancient of days represent. In our reading of Jeremiah, Fr. Mike explains the prophetic significance of the good and bad figs. Today's readings are Jeremiah 24-25, Daniel 6-7, and Proverbs 16:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike touches on Proverbs 16:3, which is about giving everything in our lives to the service of the Lord. He also emphasizes how important it is to humble ourselves before the Lord, so to avoid becoming like the false prophets Jeremiah talks about today. Today's readings are Jeremiah 23, Daniel 4-5, and Proverbs 16:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike shares one of his favorite Bible verses, and guides us through the story of Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah as they are thrown into the fiery furnace. He also emphasizes the significance of their Hebrew names, and how powerful name changes are in Scripture. Today's readings are Jeremiah 22, Daniel 3, and Proverbs 15:29-33.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike walks us through the fall of Jerusalem, and the intense lament of Jeremiah as he watches the people of Israel fall into captivity. He also introduces us to the Prophet Daniel, and his incredible gift of discerning dreams and proclaiming God's Word. Today's readings are Jeremiah 20-21, Daniel 1-2, and Proverbs 15:25-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike guides us through the last two chapters of Ezekiel, explaining the biblical significance of the water flowing from the right side of the temple, and how it foreshadows Christ's passion. He also emphasizes the imagery of the clay and the potter in Jeremiah, signifying how our lives are meant to be open for God to mold and shape, according to his will. Today's readings are Jeremiah 18-19, Ezekiel 47-48, and Proverbs 15:21-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on the concept of being rich in love instead of rich in wealth today, as we read about the heart of a mother and father in our verse from Proverbs. He also emphasizes the presence of sacrificial love in the vocation of marriage and family through God's decision to keep Jeremiah single, saving him from more suffering. Today's readings are Jeremiah 16-17, Ezekiel 45-46, and Proverbs 15:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on the prophet Jeremiah’s continued sorrow and explains how lying prophets bring forth destruction. He invites us to examine what lies in our lives are bringing destruction. We also continue reading about Ezekiel’s vision, and see the glory of the Lord return to the temple. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 14-15, Ezekiel 43-44, and Proverbs 15:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike teaches us about recognizing our limitations especially when trying to compete with God. We also see how the Lord listens to Jeremiah’s complaints and responds to him in a peculiar but hopeful way. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 12-13, Ezekiel 41-42, and Proverbs 15:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike shows us from our reading of Jeremiah that when we give our hearts and minds over to idols we become foolish. The way of man is not in himself, we need the Lord to guide and correct us. In Ezekiel, we read of the vision of the measuring of the temple and Fr. Mike shows us how the early Church Fathers would read the Old Testament in light of the New Testament. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 10-11, Ezekiel 40, and Proverbs 15:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on Jeremiah’s sorrow for the people of Israel while reminding us that the one thing we ought to find glory in,  is in understanding and knowing God. In our reading of Ezekiel, we hear about God's ongoing promise to restore Israel. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 9, Ezekiel 39, and Proverbs 15:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the significance behind the mention of bones in Jeremiah and Ezekiel.  In Jeremiah, we learn that the bones of God's people are scattered because of their worship of false gods. In Ezekiel, we see the prophet prophesy over the valley of dry bones and the Lord’s Spirit restoring and moving within them. Today’s readings are Jeremiah 8, Ezekiel 37-38, and Proverbs 14:33-35.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Reflecting on the stubbornness of the Israelites' hearts from today's readings, Fr. Mike teaches us that we cannot always trust our imperfect hearts, because they are not always aligned God's law and will, and they can often lead us into false worship. However, we can rely on God who promises to give us a new heart so that we can do what we ought. Today's readings are Jeremiah 7, Ezekiel 36, and Proverbs 14:29-32.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the beautiful connections between all of our readings today. He emphasizes how good shepherds are willing to face the truth, and also sacrifice for his sheep, like Jesus who laid down his life for us. In our reading of Jeremiah, Fr. Mike also explains that the experience of shame points to the reality that there is something good within us that ought not to be violated. Today we read Jeremiah 6, Ezekiel 34-35, and Proverbs 14:25-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike expands on Ezekiel 33 and emphasizes that the role of a prophet, is to be God's watchman and speak whatever it is God wants to be spoken.  He stresses the reality that those who are teachers and leaders, who shape and form the consciences of others, have the responsibility to speak the truth even when it's hard. Today's readings are Jeremiah 5, Ezekiel 33, and Proverbs 14:21-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the people of Israel's flaw in trusting in the strength and power of Egypt, not realizing that although Egypt is like a towering cedar tree, the nation will eventually collapse. Fr. Mike also points out Jeremiah's vehement message to Israel to brace themselves for God's judgment. Today we read Jeremiah 4, Ezekiel 31-32, and Proverbs 14:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In our reading of Proverbs 14, Fr. Mike reinforces that freedom is not the same thing as license, true freedom is the power to do what we ought. Fr. Mike also reflect on Jeremiah's repudiation of Israel's cult worship and how its distorted sexuality had serious consequences. Today's readings are Jeremiah 3,  Ezekiel 29-30, and  Proverbs 14:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reviews one of the most powerful verses in Proverbs, dealing with personal discernment and wanting to follow our own will instead of God's. He also goes into a deeper explanation of the prophet, Jeremiah, and how we ourselves can reflect the actions of Israel in the Old Testament. Today's readings are Jeremiah 2, Ezekiel 28, and Proverbs 14:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike introduces us to the prophet Jeremiah, who is also known as the Prophet of Doom and the Weeping Prophet. He explains what makes Jeremiah different than the other prophets, and encourages us to cling closely to him as we hear about his difficult call. Today's readings are Jeremiah 1, Ezekiel 27, and Proverbs 14:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike takes us through the last chapter of Isaiah by explaining how our emotions can sometimes get in the way of us responding well to those around us. This means mourning with those who mourn, and rejoicing with those who rejoice, as Isaiah teaches us in preparation for the coming of Christ. Today's readings are Isaiah 66, Ezekiel 25-26, and Proverbs 14:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the relationship between idolatry and adultery, and how one can easily lead to another, especially in our relationship with God. He also talks about the difference between discipline and abuse, as we cover some tough topics today. Today's readings are Isaiah 65, Ezekiel 23-24, and Proverbs 13:21-25.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike expands on the passage we read in Proverbs, and emphasizes how important it is to surround ourselves with people who are striving towards holiness. He also reflects on the book of Isaiah, and how these last couple of stories show that God's justice is always aligned with his infinite mercy. Today's readings are Isaiah 63-64, Ezekiel 21-22, and Proverbs 13:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out that the prophecy from Isaiah 61 is fulfilled by Jesus (as described in Luke 4). In Ezekiel, Fr. Mike draws our attention to the importance of the Sabbath as the sign of the covenant with God. The readings are Isaiah 61-62, Ezekiel 20, and Proverbs 13:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out that separation from God is not due to a lack of power or love on God's part, but is a consequence of our willful refusal to follow Him. He also highlights that despite our unfaithfulness, God always has a plan for reconciliation. The readings are Isaiah 59-60, Ezekiel 19, and Proverbs 13:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on some of the ways that the people turn away from God, including: worshipping idols, fasting for selfish reasons, and not honoring the sabbath. He also highlights the passage from Ezekiel 18 that tells us that each person will be judged by their own actions, and not by those of their parents or children. The readings are Isaiah 57-58, Ezekiel 17-18, and Proverbs 13:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the rich text in Isaiah 55 and 56 which reveals that the house of the Lord will not only be for the chosen people, but for all people. We also hear the story of how God mercifully restores Israel who is like an unfaithful bride. Today’s readings are Isaiah 55-56, Ezekiel 16, and Proverbs 13:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike marvels at the beauty of Isaiah 53, which reveals that Jesus is the Lord's suffering servant and also zeroes in on Ezekiel 15, which reminds us that without God we are like a useless vine that bears no fruit. Today we read Isaiah 53-54, Ezekiel 14-15, and Proverbs 12:25-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on Ezekiel's warnings about false prophets misleading the people of Israel,  and challenges us to reflect whether we choose to listen to prophets who tell us what we need to hear, not just what we want to hear. Today's readings are Isaiah 51-52, Ezekiel 12-13, and Proverbs 12:21-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on how Isaiah's prophecies in chapters 49-50 point to the immediate reality of God's promise of redemption for Israel, as well as to the distant reality of Jesus Christ as the Messiah. In our reading of Ezekiel, we also learn how the glory of God departed from the temple, and how God's presence is often hidden from us as well. Today's readings are Isaiah 49-50, Ezekiel 10-11, and Proverbs 12:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike touches upon the prophecy of judgment against Babylon and Israel, and how God still promises to be Israel's redeemer despite their disobedience.  We also read about Ezekiel's vision of the temple and how the markings on the foreheads of the Israelites symbolizes the mourning of true worship, and also foreshadows Jesus' death on the Cross. Today we read Isaiah 47-48, Ezekiel 8-9, and Proverbs 12:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the works of King Cyrus, who we met yesterday, and how he is able to contribute to the will of God without actually knowing him. Cyrus not only shows us that no soul is ever too far for God's grace, but that God makes all things new, and is able to bring beautiful blessings from the most desperate situations. Today's readings are Isaiah 45-46, Ezekiel 6-7, and Proverbs 12:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike emphasizes our title as children of God as we read about the tragedy of the Babylonian exile. Even in our lowest moments, God wants us to know that he has called us each by name and has called us his, because a good Father does not abandon his children. Today's readings are Isaiah 43-44, Ezekiel 4-5, and Proverbs 12:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike compares the messages of Isaiah and Ezekiel, one coming from a pre-exile time and the other from a post-exile time. Even though they are coming from two very different points in salvation history, they both are persistent in speaking the Word of God, and sharing his consolation with the people of Israel. Today's readings are Isaiah 41-42, Ezekiel 2-3, and Proverbs 12:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike brings us into the book of Consolation as we continue through Isaiah, and learn about how God never fails to comfort his people, even in the worst of times. He also introduces us to the Prophet Ezekiel, as we read about God accompanying his people into exile, even after their unfaithfulness.Today's readings are Isaiah 39-40, Ezekiel 1, and Proverbs 11:29-31.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the three ways the people are tempted to turn away from God while in exile: by not worshipping God the way He has asked, by worshipping false idols, and by being superstitious and fearful of false gods. Today's reading are Isaiah 37-38, Baruch 5-6, and Proverbs 11:25-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out the passages that highlight the coming of God, and asks us to reflect on whether our response is hope and excitement, or fear and dread. Today's readings are Isaiah 34-36, Baruch 3-4, and Proverbs 11:21-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the context of the book of Baruch, and also highlights Isaiah's warning against complacency and how God's justice applies to everyone, even those who don't believe in Him. The readings are Isaiah 32-33, Baruch 1-2, and Proverbs 11:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike  breaks down God's incredible promise of redemption to Zion and reminds us that God always wants to fight for us, so that our shame may be turned into glory. Today's readings are Isaiah 30-31, Zephaniah 3, and Proverbs 11:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin reading the Book of Zephaniah, Fr. Mike draws our attention to the first five accusations Zephaniah declares against the people of Judah; idolatry, lack of prayer, poor leadership, superstitions, and lack of belief in God's judgment. Today we read Isaiah 28-29, Zephaniah 1-2, and Proverbs 11:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out God's remarkable promise of deliverance to Israel even in the midst of their captivity and apparent hopelessness. Even when we don't see God working in our lives, we rejoice in God because we trust and hope in his promise of salvation.  Today's readings are Isaiah 25-27, Habakkuk 3, and Proverbs 11:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue journeying through the prophets, Fr. Mike helps us understand the oracle concerning Tyre and also points out that God's judgment will  always be completed.  Today we also begin reading the Book of Habakkuk and learn about the five powerful woes we can all relate to. Todays' readings are Isaiah 23-24, Habakkuk 1-2, and Proverbs 11:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on Isaiah 22 today and explains how the role of the pope in the Catholic Church goes all the way back to this important chapter in Isaiah. We learn that Jesus himself instituted the papacy by making Peter his 'al-habbayit, the one over the household who holds the keys to the kingdom when the king is away. Today's readings are Isaiah 21-22, Nahum 3, and Proverbs 10:29-32.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike celebrates Day 200 of our journey by highlighting the relationship between Egypt, Assyria, and Israel according to the Lord's plan. We have a God who died for his enemies to make him his friends, and we see that foreshadowed in Isaiah, concerning the horrific acts of Assyria and Egypt. Today's readings are Isaiah 18-20, Nahum 1-2, and Proverbs 10:25-28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why Joel would say that there are certain times for war, even within God's plan. In a broken world, we are sometimes going to be called to fight the brokenness around us, but we must believe that God is allowing this not because he likes war, but because something better will come in its place. Today's readings are Isaiah 16-17, Joel 3, and Proverbs 10:21-24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike introduces us to the prophet Joel, and the unique timing of his ministry in the midst of tragedy. He also touches on the prophecy concerning Lucifer and St. Michael the Archangel, and how the two are directly contrasted to show the glory of God. Today's readings are Isaiah 14-15, Joel 1-2, and Proverbs 10:17-20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reveals yet another prophetic message that points towards the coming of Christ, explaining why the Book of Isaiah is often called the Book of Woe and the Book of Consolation. He also touches on the powerful prayer we hear as we end our journey with Tobit. Today's readings are Isaiah 11-13, Tobit 13-14, and Proverbs 10:13-16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about the destruction of Israel and explains how Jesus becoming man is the fulfillment of this prophesy we hear in Isaiah. He also points out the importance of God's anger with the Assyrians destroying Israel, even though he will bring the greatest blessings out of the worst circumstances. Today's readings are Isaiah 9-10, Tobit 10-12, and Proverbs 10:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the purity of Tobias and Sarah's love, and the power of their prayer as a married couple. Today we read Isaiah 7-8, Tobit 7-9, and Proverbs 10:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike zeroes in on Isaiah 5-6 today.  He emphasizes the literary masterpiece of the parable of the vineyard in Isaiah 5 and how it represents the story of Israel.  He also shows us how Isaiah 6 is full of rich symbolism that points to the sacred realities of the Mass. We are reminded that God is truly holy and deserving of our praise. Today's readings are Isaiah 5-6, Tobit 5-6, and Proverbs 10:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on the book of Tobit today and explains why this beautiful book is missing from non-Catholic Bibles. He dives into the history behind the arrangement of the Bible, and why the Catholic Bible includes 73 books. Todays's readings are Isaiah 3-4, Tobit 3-4, and Proverbs 9:13-18.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we begin reading the book of the prophet Isaiah and the book of Tobit! Fr. Mike helps us understand the historical context of Isaiah's ministry to Judah, and the themes of condemnation and consolation present in his writings. As we enter into the book of Tobit, Fr. Mike emphasizes Tobit's virtuous character. Today we read Isaiah 1-2, Tobit 1-2, and Proverbs 9:7-12.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we finish our journey in 2 Kings and 2 Chronicles, Fr. Mike highlights the Babylonian exile as a critical event in the story of salvation. Although the exile is a dark and devastating part of the Israel's history, Fr. Mike reminds us that it's not the end of their story. Today's readings are 2 Kings 25, 2 Chronicles 36, and Proverbs 9:1-6.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we near the end of 2 Kings, Fr. Mike takes us through Babylon's conquest of Judah, under the leadership of King Nebuchadnezzar. He touches on the importance of wisdom in the Book of Proverbs, and revisits the sons of Josiah in order to explain why the people of Israel are so lost. Today's readings are 2 Kings 24, 2 Chronicles 35, and Proverbs 8:22-36.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why it's important to focus on our own journey with the Lord over those around us while highlighting the leadership of king Josiah. He also reminds us how the mistakes of past kings had led Israel down a dark path. Today's readings are 2 Kings 23, 2 Chronicles 34, and Proverbs 8:1-21.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike introduces us to the book of Proverbs, while reflecting on the lack of devotion Israel has shown towards God and the Book of the Law. Much like God gave the book of the Law to Israel, he's given the Bible to us to continue following him faithfully. Today's readings are 2 Kings 22, 2 Chronicles 33, and Proverbs 7.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike recalls Hezekiah's prayer for more time and reveals how Hezekiah did not use that time wisely. We all are only given a specific amount of time on this earth, and it's up to us to use that time to become more like Christ, so we can spend eternity with him in Heaven. Today's readings are 2 Kings 21, 2 Chronicles 32, and Psalm 145.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the goodness of Hezekiah as king of Judah but also points out his failure to protect the future of his people. While Hezekiah let his self-interest cloud his judgment, we are reminded to pray for those who will come after us, doing our best to preserve what will be theirs one day. Today's readings are 2 Kings 20, 2 Chronicles 31, and Psalm 144.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike continues to emphasize Hezekiah's faithfulness as he turns to God in prayer in the midst of battle, and reinstitutes the Passover feast. Today we read  2 Kings 19, 2 Chronicles 30, and Psalm 143.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on Hezekiah's righteousness as king of Judah, and his pivotal work of restoring true worship and removing false idols. By undoing all of the corrupt things his father king Ahaz did, Hezekiah shows us that our ancestors do not define our destiny. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the Exile period! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the eighth biblical period, which covers the fall of the Southern Kingdom, Judah, and its exile into Babylon. They explain how the physical exile of Judah was representative of their spiritual realities, and ultimately oriented towards the healing and restoration of their unfaithfulness. We also learn about the role of prophets in this period. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read about the critical moment when Assyria destroys the Northern Kingdom, and the ten northern tribes are exiled and assimilated among the nations. Fr. Mike explains how this moment and the foreign possession of Samaria is key in order to understand Jesus' encounter with the Samaritan woman in John 4. We also read about how the prophet Micah beautifully foreshadows the birth of Jesus. Today's readings are 2 Kings 17, Micah 5-7, and Psalm 140.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Congratulations, you've made it about halfway through the Bible in a Year journey! Today, we read again about king Ahaz's unfaithfulness in 2 Kings. We are also introduced to the prophet Micah, who is all about judgement and hope, and we read one of Fr. Mike's favorite psalms. Today's readings are 2 Kings 16, Micah 1-4, and Psalm 139.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, we hear the story of the prophet Jonah, who, unlike Amos, did not want the people to repent. The readings are 2 Kings 15, Jonah 1-4, and Psalm 138.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we conclude the book of Amos, we hear Amos rebuke the people for grudgingly giving their time to God, as in prayer or on the sabbath, and counting the minutes until they could do whatever they wanted. Fr. Mike points out that if we don't give our hearts and minds to God, we won't be able to stand heaven, where prayer and praise are everlasting. The readings are 2 Kings 13-14, Amos 7-9, and Psalm 124.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out how Amos' warning against being overly preoccupied with comfort and thus blinded to the needs of others can be especially relevant to us today. The readings are 2 Kings 11-12, Amos 4-6, and Psalm 122.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out how Jehu followed God half-way, but God wants us to follow Him with our whole hearts. He also explains the prophecy of Amos, who is trying to call people back to the Lord before it is too late. The readings for today are 2 Kings 10, Amos 1-3, and Psalm 110.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike shortly touches on David's honest prayer in Psalm 109 before diving into the unending love God has for his people. As we continue to journey through our readings, we will begin to see the words of the prophets come to fruition as those who return to the Lord in faith will experience his undying love and forgiveness, despite their unfaithfulness. Today's readings are 2 Kings 9, Hosea 11-14, and Psalm 109.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why all of us are called to listen to the prophets of the Old Testament, and why their role is so important in salvation history. Each of us is building some kind of life and picture of eternity: the question we must ask ourselves is are we building it with God or against him? Today's readings are 2 Kings 8, Hosea 8-10, and Psalm 108.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike emphasizes the importance of knowing God and knowing his love for us as we read about the devastation of war and the lack of faith displayed by Israel. Without a deeper knowledge of God, not only can we struggle for hope in God's plan, but we can also fall into the temptation of losing faith in him altogether. Today's readings are 2 Kings 6-7, Hosea 4-7, and Psalm 103.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike takes a break from 2 Chronicles to enter into the book of Hosea. We learn that Hosea was a prophet called to not only witness to God's words, but to his actions as well. Fr. Mike also touches on hope in times of intense healing, and how essential this virtue is when striving to live a life for Christ. Today's readings are 2 Kings 5, Hosea 1-3, and Psalm 101.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about how we see both an abundance of faith, and a great lack of faith in our readings today. While the widow Elisha visits shows us a beautiful example of walking in faith, king Ahaz fails to repent as he falls deeper into sin. Today's readings are 2 Kings 4, 2 Chronicles 28, and Psalm 127.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike zeroes in on how Uzziah's prideful desire to worship God in his own way led to his tragic death. We are reminded once again how easily the kings over Judea strayed away from God after achieving greatness. Today's readings are 2 Kings 3, 2 Chronicles 26-27, and Psalm 72.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down the moment Elijah is taken up to heaven, and the miracle Elisha performs at the spring. In 2 Chronicles, we also read about how king Amaziah suddenly turned his heart away from God by worshipping idols. Today's readings are 2 Kings 2, 2 Chronicles 25, and Psalm 70.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike looks at Joash's downfall and disobedience after the death of Jehoida. We learn how important it is to have good mentors in our lives who keep us grounded in the faith. Fr. Mike also emphasizes the significance of Psalm 69 and how to properly interpret it. Today's readings are 2 Kings 1, 2 Chronicles 24, and Psalm 69.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how Athaliah's death, Jehoiada's covenant, and the crowning of Joash as king of Judah was pivotal for the restoration of the Temple. Today's readings are 1 Kings 22, 2 Chronicles 23, and Song of Solomon 8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the wickedness and unfaithfulness of king Ahab, king Jehoram and king Azaiah. We learn that their selfish and disobedient actions have severe consequences. Today's readings are 1 Kings 21, 2 Chronicles 21-22, and Song of Solomon 7.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read about Elijah's discouragement after fleeing from Jezebel, and how God tells him to "arise and eat" to strengthen him for the journey ahead. Fr. Mike points out how God calls us to draw strength for the journey as well, even at the end of our earthly lives. The readings are 1 Kings 19-20, 2 Chronicles 20, and Song of Solomon 6.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, we are introduced to the prophet Elijah, who again and again responds to God's invitations with faith. The readings are 1 Kings 17-18, 2 Chronicles 18-19, and Song of Solomon 5.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike connects today's reading from Songs to the teachings of St. John Paul's Theology of the Body. He also points out how helpful it is to track the timelines of the kings of Israel and Judah as we read from Kings and Chronicles simultaneously. The readings are 1 Kings 15-16, 2 Chronicles 16-17, and Song of Solomon 4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out the results of what happened to the kings who built idols, and what happened to the kings who tore them down. He encourages us to tear down the idols we've built up in our own lives by trusting God with our first fruits. Today's readings are 1 Kings 14, 2 Chronicles 14-15, and Song of Solomon 3.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike touches on the last acts of King Rehobo'am and the rise of his son, Abi′jah. He also explains how we can see the importance of faith over success through the mistakes of Israel's leaders. Today's readings are 1 Kings 13, 2 Chronicles 12-13, and Song of Solomon 2.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why it's better to seek counsel from those who don't necessarily always agree with us, using the experience of Rehobo′am as an example. He also touches on the failed leadership of Jerobo′am as he leads his people into false places of worship and idolatry. Today's readings are 1 Kings 12, 2 Chronicles 10-11, and Song of Solomon 1.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the Divided Kingdom period! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to explain the critical information needed to understand the rest of our biblical readings. They talk about Solomon's alliances with foreign nations, the growth of a civil war, and the incredible significance of 1 Kings 12:16.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike finishes the gospel of Mark by reflecting on the death and resurrection of Christ. He also encourages us to reflect on the redemption of our own sins every time we see a crucifix and to return that same sacrificial love to God every day. Today's readings are Mark 15-16 and Psalm 22.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike guides us through Jesus' warning of persecution to the people of Israel as we near the end of Mark's Gospel. He also touches on how Jesus' behavior in the Garden of Gethsemane should serve as an example to us, and explains why Judas' betrayal was so heartbreaking. Today's readings are Mark 13-14 and Psalm 68.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read about Jesus' entry into Jerusalem, Fr. Mike breaks down Jesus' interactions with his disciples and the sadducees, and his reaction to the widow's offering. We learn that a life rooted in Jesus, is a life that bears good fruit. Today we read Mark 11-12 and Psalm 67.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the reality of sin and our capacity to choose hell as we read about Jesus' teachings on temptations, divorce, and wealth. Jesus' teachings can be challenging, but following him is the path to true holiness. Today we read Mark 9-10 and Psalm 29.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike emphasizes that following Jesus as his disciples requires remarkable humility, faith, purity of heart, and courage. Today's readings are Mark 7-8 and Psalm 23.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue to read about Jesus' ministry, Fr. Mike focuses today on Jesus' power to cast out demons and reminds us that there is an ongoing spiritual battle for our souls. Today's readings are Mark 5-6 and Psalm 21.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read about Jesus' teachings and miracles that confirm his identity as Lord. Fr. Mike emphasizes the divinity of Jesus revealed in his actions, and clarifies historical facts about his life. The readings are Mark 3-4 and Psalm 20.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin reading the Gospel of Mark, Fr. Mike points out several amazing details about the baptism of Jesus, as well as the significance of the healing of the paralytic. The readings are Mark 1-2 and Psalm 11.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the second Messianic Checkpoint! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the Gospel of Mark and discuss how this short Gospel helps us understand both the identity and mission of Jesus. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, as we hear about the decline of Solomon, Fr. Mike points out how the consequences of our decisions can have ramifications far beyond ourselves. The readings are 1 Kings 11, Ecclesiastes 10-12, and Psalm 9.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reminds us that, eventually, all of us will be forgotten by the world. He encourages us to keep our eyes fixed on heaven, focusing on surrender and trust in God, rather than control. Today's readings are 1 Kings 10, Ecclesiastes 8-9, and Psalm 8.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike delves deeper into the lessons Ecclesiastes teaches us today about living wisely by keeping the end in mind, enjoying the present moment,  and not worrying too much about other people's opinions of us. Today's readings are 1 Kings 9, Ecclesiastes 6-7, and Psalm 7.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the details of Solomon's dedication of the Temple, and the power of God's presence dwelling in it. In Ecclesiastes, we continue to learn more nuggets of wisdom about friendship, prudence, and money. Today we read 1 Kings 8,  Ecclesiastes 3-5, and Psalm 6.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we begin reading the book of Ecclesiastes! Fr. Mike helps us understand the central theme of this book of wisdom literature- the meaning of life. What truly matters in this passing life? It's only because God exists that everything matters because our choices and lives will endure into eternity. Today's readings are 1 Kings 7, Ecclesiastes 1-2, and Psalm 5.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the purpose behind the beauty and extravagance of the Temple Solomon built for the Lord. On the other hand, he also points out the issue with the image of power and strength Solomon is trying to portray by gathering so much wealth as King. Today's readings are 1 Kings 6, 2 Chronicles 9, and Psalm 4.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reinforces the power of God's presence in the Temple, and the importance of worshipping God the way he desires to be worshipped. We also begin to hear how Solomon starts disobeying God and setting himself up for idolatry. Today's readings are 1 Kings 5, 2 Chronicles 7-8, and Psalm 66.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reveals Solomon's plan of leadership, and how he is aiming to unite the people. He also foreshadows the importance of the Temple as a place where Israel can go to worship God as one people. Today's readings are 1 Kings 4, 2 Chronicles 6, and Psalm 65.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reads the story of Solomon's greatest action as king: building a temple for the Lord, showing us how important it is to give glory to the Lord for all he's done for us. He is learning from his father's mistakes, but this story will sadly conclude the greatest moments of his life. Today's readings are 1 Kings 3, 2 Chronicles 4-5, and Psalm 64.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike looks into David's last words to his son Solomon and explains why it could have been hard for him to take David's advice. He also points out the important role of the mother of the king, and how this will foreshadow the role of Mary in the New Testament. Today's readings are 1 Kings 2, 2 Chronicles 2-3, and Psalm 62.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike starts to unpack the character of Solomon and explains how we can see the beginning of his downfall in today's readings. Although Solomon has been blessed with wisdom, he lacks obedience, which is much more important in maintaining a relationship with God. Today's readings are 1 Kings 1, 2 Chronicles 1, and Psalm 43.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike uses the readings today to ask the question, how can we love the Lord joyfully, and with our whole hearts? In scripture today we see David succeed in this, while his son Solomon is divided in his love of God. Fr. Mike also explains why David was seeking his own power when taking the census in 2 Samuel, and how he fell subject to the evil one's tempting. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 24, 1 Chronicles 29, and Psalm 30.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike touches on one of his favorite bible stories about David's mighty men and discusses his attitude in old age. At the end of his life, David chooses not to dwell on his mistakes, but to recognize the people around him and the blessings he received, which helped him accomplish what God was calling him to do. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 23, 1 Chronicles 28, and Psalm 42.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the significance behind David's prayer of thanksgiving at the end of his life. There's something so moving about David's gratitude with God as he acknowledges his brokenness and victories throughout his life. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 22, 1 Chronicles 27, and Psalm 41.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings, Fr. Mike highlights David's humility in two instances: when David asked the Gibeonites how he could repair their relationship after they had been mistreated by Saul, and when David takes a step back from battle. He also explains the role of the gatekeepers as people who would be responsible for guarding the doors to the Temple. The readings are 2 Samuel 21, 1 Chronicles 26, and Psalm 40.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out how violence begets violence in the reading from 2 Samuel, and shows us how the sins we commit extend much further than ourselves. We also read about the Temple musicians in 1 Chronicles, and hear Psalm 39, written by a Temple musician. Today's reading are 2 Samuel 20, 1 Chronicles 25, and Psalm 39.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings, Fr. Mike points out how the loss of David's son overshadows everything else in his life. The readings are 2 Samuel 19, 1 Chronicles 24, and Psalm 38.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, we hear about the downfall of Absalom, and how David reacts to the news of his death. In Chronicles, we read about David changing some of the rules of worship, as he prepares for Temple worship. The readings are 2 Samuel 18, 1 Chronicles 23, and Psalm 37.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the events of today's readings, breaking down Hushai's advice to Absalom, David's warning and charge of Solomon, and the theme of centralized worship. We all desire to be temples of the Holy Spirit, and we bring this prayer to God through today's episode. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 17, 1 Chronicles 22, and Psalm 36.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about the horrible things that can happen when we turn away from God and stop asking him "what's the next step?" In today's readings we see David humbled and humiliated, Absalom revealing how devasting sin is, and the evil that comes from war. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 16, 1 Chronicles 21, and Psalm 15.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on trust today, specifically trusting God in difficult times. Like David, we need to learn to trust God in the midst of the battle, not wait until it's over. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 15, 1 Chronicles 19-20, and Psalm 3.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the story of David and Absalom, and points out the lack of forgiveness and repentance on both men's part. God forgives us no matter what, but without us mirroring that forgiveness, rebellion can easily rise up. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 14, 1 Chronicles 18, and Psalm 14.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike preaches hope for the future of those with wounded hearts as we read the stories of Tamar, Amnon, and David. No matter what's in your past - things you've done or things that have been done to you - there is abundant hope for your future because God desires to make you whole. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 13, 1 Chronicles 17, and Psalm 35.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike touches on the sins of David, and how we can see ourselves in these fallen characters in scripture. God desires a relationship with us free from sin, and although it may be painful, he brings these things into the light not out of anger, but out of love. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 12, 1 Chronicles 16, and Psalm 51.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down David's tragic downfall as he commits adultery with Bathsheba and kills her husband, Uriah the Hittite. We learn that David's road to grave sin began with small acts of disobedience and selfishness. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 11, 1 Chronicles 14-15, and Psalm 32.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue to read about how King David expands his kingdom, Fr. Mike points out the mighty men of valor, who were men of great courage, honor and excellence that fought in Israel's battles. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 10, 1 Chronicles 13, and Psalm 31.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike draws our attention to David's kindness towards the house of Saul, including Jonathan's lame son Mephibosheth. We learn that even though Saul persecuted David, David continued to honor his descendants. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 9, 1 Chronicles 12, and Psalm 28.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike emphasizes how King David's victories in battle are part of his calling to establish Israel as a kingdom. He also reminds us that the recapitulation of the events we read about 1 Chronicles 10-11  is not repetitive, it served a specific purpose for the people of Israel. Today we read 2 Samuel 8, 1 Chronicles 10-11 and Psalm 60.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the moment God makes a covenant with David, promising him an everlasting dynasty, but reserving the building of the Temple to David's son Solomon. He also teaches us how 2 Samuel 7 foreshadows the fact that the Blessed Mother is the new Ark of the Covenant. Today's readings are 2 Samuel 6-7, 1 Chronicles 9, and Psalm 89.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read about the moment David is made king over all Israel. Fr. Mike reveals that as David begins his rule, he has both strengths and weaknesses. Today we read 2 Samuel 5, 1 Chronicles 7-8, and Psalm 27.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the importance of David's reaction to the death of Ish-bosheth, Saul's son. Today we read 2 Samuel 4, 1 Chronicles 5-6, and Psalm 26.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings, we hear about the death of Abner, and Fr. Mike points out how David publicly mourns Abner, and instructs his people to do the same. The readings are 2 Samuel 3, 1 Chronicles 3-4, and Psalm 25.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about how revenge and violence can become a cycle that doesn't end until someone chooses to end it. He also points out how the genealogy in 1 Chronicles reflects the genealogy of Christ. The reading for today are 2 Samuel 2, 1 Chronicles 2, and Psalm 24.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we begin two new books as we read 2 Samuel 1, 1 Chronicles 1, and Psalm 13. Fr. Mike shows us how nothing in scripture is wasted space, and also points out how, through God's grace, we can move past the things that have hurt us.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In the last chapters of 1 Samuel, Fr. Mike focuses on David's wisdom in battle through his prayer and ability to unite the people of Israel. He also touches on Psalm 18 and how wonderful things can happen once we allow ourselves to be loved by God. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 29-31 and Psalm 18.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on King Saul's despair in the face of trial, and how he seeks other means of comfort when he feels like God has abandoned him. God never abandons us, especially in the midst of danger. Fr. Mike invites us to place our trust in God's promise, instead of resorting to sinful acts. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 27-28 and Psalm 34.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reveals how David exemplifies the virtues of reverence and faithfulness. David walks both as a man of faith and as a fallen son of God, but we continue to walk with him because we too are striving for a life with Christ. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 26 and Psalm 56.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the relationship between David and Abigail, and how the Lord calls David to be a better man through Abigail. Where has God put these types of relationships in our lives? Today's readings are 1 Samuel 25 and Psalm 63.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike uses King Saul as an example that God does not unchoose those he has chosen, and never loses faith in us. Even if we feel someone is in power unjustly, it's God who decides who holds power, not us. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 24 and Psalm 57.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explores the actions of David before saving the city of Keilah, and how he sets an example for us while discerning God's will. He also points out how God is working constantly in our lives, even if we don't see half of what he's doing. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 23 and Psalm 54.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings, we learn how Doeg the Edomite betrayed David, the priests, and the Lord. Fr. Mike explains that betrayal is painful because our hearts are deeply wounded when trust is broken. Today we read 1 Samuel 21-22 and Psalm 52.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike zeroes in on the deep friendship between Jonathan and David and the enduring power of their brotherly bond. He breaks down the different kinds of friendship according to Greek philosophy, and points out how true and virtuous friendship is so rare and special. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 20 and Psalm 142.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike contrasts Jonathan's brotherly friendship with David, and Saul's bitterness and envy towards David. We also learn from Psalm 59 that David still praised God in his distress as Saul tried to kill him. Today we read 1 Samuel 18-19 and Psalm 59.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read the epic story of how David defeats Goliath, a giant Philistine warrior. Fr. Mike points out that David's heroic courage in this battle came from David's faithfulness to God and to the small tasks entrusted to him as a shepherd. We learn that when we are faithful and courageous in small matters, we can face the giants in our bigger battles. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 17 and Psalm 12.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue to read about Saul's vanity and disobedience, Fr. Mike emphasizes the importance of the virtue of obedience in our relationship with God. He also points out how God chose David to be anointed as king because David was a man after God's own heart. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 15-16 and Psalm 61.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights Saul's brokenness and vanity as he makes an unlawful sacrifice and a rash oath in order to save Israel in the midst of war. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 13-14, and Psalm 58.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we continue reading from 1 Samuel, Fr. Mike points out how God gave the people a king like they wanted, even though it was not part of his plan. This reveals to us that even when we choose things that God does not want for us, he is still with us. The readings are 1 Samuel 11-12 and Psalm 55.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin the Royal Kingdom period, we hear about the first king of Israel, Saul. We discover that though Saul looks like a fearless warrior, he has a major flaw. Fr. Mike also points out the significance of the readings from Proverbs. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 9-10 and Proverbs 6:23-35.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the Royal Kingdom period! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to set the scene for this time period. They review the major players, and why the people of Israel asked for a king.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In our final reading from the Gospel of John, we hear about the crucifixion, death, and resurrection of Jesus. Fr. Mike points out the connection between the Paschal lamb and Jesus, and also the connection between the Last Supper and the Crucifixion. Today's readings are John 19-21 and Proverbs 6:16-22.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on the prayer of Jesus before his sacrifice, where he not only prays for all his disciples but for us as well. We also dive into Christ's trial with Pilate, and how the actions of the Jews are much like ours today. Today's readings are John 16-18 and Proverbs 6:12-15.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out the secrecy in Judas' life and highlights Jesus' words of conviction to the disciples before his death. He also explains how important it is to bring Jesus into our temptation and to not hide our hearts from him as Judas did. Today's readings are John 13-15 and Proverbs 6:6-11
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike recalls the death of Lazarus, and how Jesus not only allowed himself to be broken by the sorrow that breaks us but also how he took that hopelessness and brought forth life. He also explains how the covenants we've seen in the Old Testament are all leading to the eternal covenant that will be instituted through Christ on the Cross. Today's readings are John 10-12 and Proverbs 6:1-5.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how the signs and wonders Jesus demonstrates in the Gospel point to the truth of his identity. He also touches on Proverbs 5, especially the last verse touching on discipline. Today's readings are John 7-9 and Proverbs 5:15-23.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we read about Jesus' powerful teaching about the Eucharist. Fr. Mike invites us to believe that the Eucharist is truly the Body, Blood, Soul, and Divinity of Our Lord Jesus Christ because Jesus said it himself. Today's readings are John 4-6 and Proverbs 5:7-14.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we begin reading the Gospel of John! Fr. Mike emphasizes the significance of Jesus' divinity, and explains how the story of salvation culminates in Christ as the Messiah. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.You've made it to the first Messianic Checkpoint! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the Gospel of John. They discuss the structure of this Gospel and what makes it so different from the other three Gospels. We learn that the Gospel of John doesn't just tell us what Jesus did, but most importantly who he is. 
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike draws our attention to Samuel's sons who turned away from God as they ruled over Israel and how the people of Israel rejected God from being their king. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 6-8 and Psalm 86.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike zeroes in on Samuel's dramatic prophecy and the tragic moment when the Philistines capture of the Ark of God. We learn that God is mighty and holds his people to a high standard. Today we read 1 Samuel 3-5 and Psalm 150.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin to read the first book of Samuel, Fr. Mike highlights the miraculous birth of Samuel and how Hannah's deep longing for a son never became an idol in her heart. Today's readings are 1 Samuel 1-2 and Psalm 149.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we conclude the book of Judges, we hear about the horrifying events that occurred among the tribes of Israel in the days when "every man did what was right in his own eyes". The readings for today are Judges 19-21 and Psalm 148.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we follow two stories of betrayal with Samson and Delilah and Micah and the Levite. Fr. Mike also explains why Judges is a prime example of how God can use broken people to do his will. The reading are Judges 16-18 and Psalm 147.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, Fr. Mike begins to read Samson's story and points out that Samson, despite his physical strength, has a lot of weaknesses. The readings are Judges 12-15 and Psalm 146.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today's readings are Judges 9-11, Ruth 4, and Psalm 137. In the reading from Judges, we hear about the rise and fall of Abimelech, as well as the misguided and heartbreaking vow Jephthah makes to God in return for victory over the Ammonites. We also conclude the book of Ruth with the marriage of Boaz and Ruth.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's reading from Judges, Fr. Mike talk about Gideon's story, and points out how the people began to worship the object Gideon had created to glorify God, instead of worshipping the living God. In Ruth, he highlights the role of kinsman-redeemer and how Jesus is the ultimate fulfillment of that role. Today's readings are Judges 6-8, Ruth 3, and Psalm 135.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike highlights the life of Ruth, and what seems to be the first day of hope she's had in a long time. Sometimes it takes a long time to catch a glimmer of hope in the darkness of our lives, but Ruth reminds us that no matter what we've been through, God is always with us. Today's readings are Judges 4-5, Ruth 2, and Psalm 134.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Welcome to the book of Judges! Fr. Mike foreshadows the events of Judges, and the cycle of disobedience we'll continue to see Israel go through. He also gives some context on the book of Ruth, and how we can find grace within the frustrating moments of Scripture. Today's readings are Judges 1-3, Ruth 1, and Psalm 133.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike focuses on the last words Joshua speaks to the people of Israel, and how he calls them to choose the Lord above all other things. We all have idols in our lives that take us away from God; how are we choosing to love Christ above these idols today? Today's readings are Joshua 22-24, and Psalm 132.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reminds us that God keeps his promises, even if it takes a little longer than we thought. Just like the people of Israel received everything the Lord had promised them, we too will receive everything the Lord has promised us, even in the midst of hardship and temptation. Today's readings are Joshua 19-21, and Psalm 131.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reminds us that God is present with us in every step of our journey, even the seemingly mundane aspects. He also encourages us to not be discouraged on this journey but to focus on relating to the historic stories of our biblical brothers and sisters. Today's readings are Joshua 15-18, and Psalm 130.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read about Joshua leading Israel into battle, Fr. Mike helps us comprehend the meaning behind all the destruction God commands. He emphasizes that God ultimately wants us to fight for each other and not against each other. Today's readings are Joshua 12-14, and Psalm 129.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike offers us different ways we can interpret the miracle of the sun standing still in Joshua 10, and also reminds us that God always desires unity for us even though we often face war and division in this world. Today's readings are Joshua 10-11, and Psalm 128.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike expands on the significance of establishing a covenant relationship, and how the trickery of the Gibeonites can represent the desire to enter into a relationship with God out of fear rather than out of love. Today's readings are Joshua 8-9, and Psalm 126.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the meaning of circumcision for Israel's relationship with God. He also underscore the gravity of Achan's sin, and how the Valley of Achor symbolizes shame that is painful but not hopeless. Today we read Joshua 5-7 and Psalm 125. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we begin our reading of the book Joshua, Fr. Mike draws our attention to God's power as he parts the waters of the Jordan river, allowing the Israelites to walk across on dry land. We learn that following God often requires great courage and trust. Today's readings are Joshua 1-4, and Psalm 123.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Congratulations on completing the Desert Wanderings period! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to introduce the fifth biblical period, Conquest and Judges. They discuss the trias the Israelites face as they enter the Promised Land. We learn that the book of Joshua and the book of Judges are characterized by Israel's unfaithfulness, destruction, and repentance. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we finish our journey through the Desert Wanderings, Fr. Mike zeroes in on the purpose of cities of refuge for the Israelites and the strong bond of community that they shared and maintained as the tribes grew. Today's readings are Numbers 35-36, Deuteronomy 34, and Psalm 121.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, Fr. Mike points out how the boundaries of the land of Canaan in Numbers remind us that the Promised Land is not a nice idea, but a real tangible place. He also reveals that Psalm 120 begins the Psalms of Ascent, or the Psalms that people would pray as they went up to the Temple to worship. The readings are Numbers 34, Deuteronomy 33, and Psalm 120.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's readings, we trace the route of the Israelites in Numbers and hear the song of Moses in Deuteronomy. Fr. Mike reflects on a hard lesson from these passages; that God will allow us to choose something other than him, even though it hurts us. The readings are Numbers 33, Deuteronomy 32, and Psalm 118.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Fr. Mike points out why it's important that the tribes of Reuben and Gad agreed to fight in Numbers 32 and also reflects on how God knows that his people will be faithless, and yet He remains faithful to them. The readings are Numbers 32, Deuteronomy 31, and Psalm 117.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down the battle against Midian and explains why God would allow destruction and warfare that can seem brutal. He also highlights how we can learn from Israel's weakness by destroying the things in our lives that lead us away from God. Today's readings are Numbers 31, Deuteronomy 30, and Psalm 116.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike shares some background on feast days of the Old Testament and emphasizes the importance of vows, which are serious promises made with God. Today's readings are Numbers 29-30, Deuteronomy 29, and Psalm 113.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike discusses the inheritance given to Zelophehad's daughters. He also highlights the journey of Joshua as Moses' successor, and how Christ is the fulfillment of Joshua's leadership. Today's readings are Numbers 27-28, Deuteronomy 28, and Psalm 112.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why it was important to take a census at different points of the people of Israel in the Old Testament.  We also learn that the Tribe of Levi is the only tribe that doesn't get an inheritance of land, because they're receiving something much greater. Today's readings are Numbers 26, Deuteronomy 27, and Psalm 111.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike describes the sinful events of Israel in Moab, and why God chooses to bless the Israelites through Balaam in spite of their sin. Today's readings are Numbers 24-25, Deuteronomy 26, and Psalm 107.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike shares more details surrounding the Old Testament laws, including why God would give us these laws in the first place. Today's readings are Numbers 23, Deuteronomy 24-25, and Psalm 106.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike dives into the character of Balaam, and why his offense was so treacherous towards his relationship with God. Today's readings are Numbers 22, Deuteronomy 23, and Psalm 105.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how the bronze serpent is a prefiguration of Jesus on the Cross.  We also continue to learn how God's laws in Deuteronomy redefine the social and sexual norms for the Israelites to teach them about the dignity of every human person. Today's readings are Numbers 21, Deuteronomy 22, and Psalm 102.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.visit 
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike describes the miracle of the waters of Meribah that God performs for his people in the wilderness. He also explains the logic behind the laws God gives his people to restore their morality as they learn to live in relationship with each other. Today we read Numbers 19-20, Deuteronomy 21, and Psalm 100.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down God's divine judgement, and the refuge he offers to those who are faithful to him. Today's readings are Numbers 18, Deuteronomy 19-20, and Psalm 99.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike discusses the forbidden forms of worship explained in Numbers 17, and why it's important for us to understand how God desired to be worshipped in the Old Testament. Today's readings are Numbers 17, Deuteronomy 17-18, and Psalm 98.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike dives into the recurring issue of the Israelites rebelling against God and remaining stuck in their past as we read about the revolt of Korah, Dathan and Abiram against Moses and Aaron. Today's readings are Numbers 16, Deuteronomy 15-16, and Psalm 97.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why God would give the Israelites such drastic consequences for their sin, and how it reveals his divine plan and infinite mercy. Today's readings are Numbers 15, Deuteronomy 13-14, and Psalm 96.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In our reading of Numbers 14 today, Fr. Mike highlights how the rebellion of the Israelites which was marked by distrust and fear, will have consequences for their children. We also read today Deuteronomy 12, and Psalm 95.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read Numbers 12 and 13, Deuteronomy 11, and Psalm 94, Fr. Mike reflects on the conflict between Aaron, Miriam, and Moses and explains why Miriam appears to be the only one punished. He also mentions the lack of trust the people continue to have in God, as they discover that the land of Canaan is occupied by a seemingly stronger force.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Fr. Mike discusses how the Israelites complaining against God and believing they were better off in Egypt reflects our own inclination to be enslaved by sin. Today's readings are Numbers 11, Deuteronomy 10, and Psalm 33.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Fr. Mike points out how the tribes of Israel travel with Judah (praise) leading the way, and makes note of how Moses intercedes for the people and acts as a mediator between God and men. Today's readings are Numbers 10, Deuteronomy 9, and Psalm 10.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.As we read Numbers 8-9, Deuteronomy 8, and Psalm 93, Fr. Mike reflects on how the Israelites were expected to celebrate Passover in all circumstances, learned to trust that God would lead them to where they needed to go, and needed to remember God in times of abundance as well as darkness.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Fr. Mike breaks down the purpose of the various offerings during the dedication of the tabernacle. We are also reminded that the people of Israel are God's chosen people because they have a key mission.  Today's readings are Numbers 7, Deuteronomy 7, and Psalm 92.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the significance behind the Nazarite vow and the priestly blessing in Numbers 6. We also learn why the Great Command revealed in Deuteronomy 6 is the foundation of all other commandments. Today we pray Psalm 91. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how God elevates the dignity of women by providing new laws around husbands accusing their wives of unfaithfulness. Today we read from Numbers 5, Deuteronomy 5, and Psalm 90. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike underscores the importance of obeying God as he reads from Numbers 4 and Deuteronomy 4. We also read Psalm 88 and learn how it foreshadows the darkness Christ endured on the cross. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike clarifies the relationship between the Tribe of Levi and the priesthood and talks about what it means to be held to a higher standard as a leader in your community. Numbers 3, Deuteronomy 3, and Psalm 87.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about the twelve tribes of Israel and explains why the book of Numbers introduces them based on the number of decedents they each had. Today we read Numbers 2, Deuteronomy 2, and Psalm 85.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike kicks off our reading of the book of Numbers by explaining where Israel is at in their journey with the Lord, and how they are keeping him at the center of it all (literally). Today we read from Numbers 1, Deuteronomy 1, and Psalm 84.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Congratulations, you've completed the Egypt & Exodus period and you've arrived at the Desert Wanderings ! Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to provide us the context for the book of Numbers and the book of Deuteronomy. They discuss how this period is marked by Israel's rebellion against God as they wander in the desert for forty years striving to regain their narrative and identity. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we finish our reading of Exodus, Fr. Mike recaps the events of Israel and how God shaped his people in worship. Today's readings are Exodus 39-40, Leviticus 27, and Psalm 83.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike encourages us to look at how we can increase our generosity to God and neighbor, inspired by the sacrificial offerings of Israel. Our readings for today are Exodus 37-38, Leviticus 26, and Psalm 82.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains why God repeats some of his instructions for worship and lays out the significance of the year of jubilee. The readings are Exodus 35-36, Leviticus 25, and Psalm 81.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reflects on God's presence to his people, and how that makes his chosen people distinct. Today's readings are Exodus 33-34, Leviticus 24, and Psalm 80.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's reading from Exodus 32, Fr. Mike shows us how when we become uncertain, we immediately try to take control of the situation, and build up idols in our hearts. We also read Leviticus 23 and Psalm 79.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike points out how blessing something sets it apart for the purposes of God, and it is no longer meant for ordinary uses. So when we are filled with the spirit of God, our daily task becomes extraordinary, because it is consecrated to God. Today's readings are Exodus 30-31, Leviticus 22, and Psalm 115.
For the complete reading plan, text visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.As we read Exodus 29, Leviticus 21, and Psalm 119:121-176, Fr. Mike points out how God calls broken and imperfect men to his holy priesthood, and asks each of us to say a special prayer for priests today.
For the complete reading plan, text visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how the holy garments for priests described in Exodus 27-28, are intentionally designed to glorify God and highlight his beauty. He also gives us an insight into the heart of the priesthood. We read today from Exodus 27-28, Leviticus 20, and Psalm 119: 57-120.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike provides us with a mental picture of the ark of the covenant and reminds that the small details of worship matter as we read Exodus 25-26, Leviticus 19, and Psalm 119:1-56.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike breaks down the three types of law we find in Leviticus, including moral laws regarding sexuality. Today's readings are Exodus 24, Leviticus 17-18, and Psalm 78.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reveals the parallels between the day of atonement and the sacrifice of the mass. We learn how the rituals and practices of the old testament foreshadow the practices of the Catholic faith. Today's readings are Exodus 23, Leviticus 16, and Psalm 77.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today, Fr. Mike explains how God's heart is revealed through his commandments, and how we are all called to a life of justice, as we read from Exodus 22, Leviticus 15, and Psalm 76.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike gives us the historical context around the commandments on slavery to help us better grasp the concept of slavery in the Old Testament. Today we read from Exodus 21, Leviticus 14, and Psalm 75.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains the meaning of a covenant with God, and how The Ten Commandments strengthen this relationship. Today's readings are Exodus 19-20, Leviticus 13, and Psalm 74.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised. Today's episode dives into the mystical works of God, and what our approach should be for explaining them in the natural world, as we read from Exodus 17-18, Leviticus 12, and Psalm 73.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike talks about how God trains the Israelites to trust him in the wilderness, and how we can grow in our own faithfulness to the Lord. Today we read Exodus 15-16, Leviticus 11, and Psalm 71.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike explains how all the rules of worship in Leviticus 10 point to the reality that God is holy. We also continue journeying through Exodus 13-14  and Psalm 53 and learn how God fought for the salvation for his people through the crossing of the red sea. 
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we discover how the Passover foreshadows the sacrifice of Jesus and how the people of Israel are transformed by God as we read Exodus 12, Leviticus 9, and Psalm 114.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.In today's reading from Exodus 10-11, Fr. Mike explains how the ten plagues reveal that God is far greater than the Egyptian gods. We also discover more about how God wants to be worshipped through Leviticus 8 and Psalm 50. 
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.As we continue to read through the ten plagues of Egypt, Fr. Mike uses the example of Pharaoh to show us how our hearts can either harden or melt in response to God. Today we read Exodus 9, Leviticus 7, and Psalm 49.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Fr. Mike points out how today's reading can act like a mirror for us as we contine to hear the story of Moses and Pharaoh in Exodus 8 and also listen to Leviticus 6 and Psalm 48.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Fr. Mike explains how God is doing something new in this period, and shows us how much God desires to pour out his mercy. Today we read Exodus 6-7, Leviticus 5, and Psalm 47.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Fr. Mike delves deeper into Moses' call to lead the Israelites out of Egypt, and reminds us that God desires to make us free so we that can worship him. Today's readings are Exodus 4-5, Leviticus 4, and Psalm 46.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike reads about the powerful moment God reveals himself to Moses in the burning bush and promises to set the Israelites free from slavery. Todays' readings are Exodus 3, Leviticus 2-3, and Psalm 45.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. 
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Today we begin our journey in Egypt and Exodus as Fr. Mike reads about the birth of Moses in and the connection between burnt offerings and the sacrifice of the mass. Today's readings are Exodus 1-2, Leviticus 1, and Psalm 44.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. 
Please note: The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Congratulations on completing the Patriarchs period! Today, Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to explore the world of Egypt and Exodus. They discuss the common problems we encounter in this period and how to discover the true purpose of God's law.
For the complete reading plan, visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Today we wrap up our journey through the Patriarchs as Fr. Mike finishes the book of Genesis and the book of Job. Fr. Mike particularly draws our attention to God's beautiful yet mysterious response to Job's questions. Today's readings are Genesis 49-50, Job 41-42, and Psalm 17.
For the complete reading plan visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Where is God in Job's suffering? Today, Fr. Mike dives deeper into Job's questions as he wrestles with his suffering. We learn that God always uses our suffering for a purpose although we may not understand it in the moment. Today's readings are Genesis 47-48, Job 39-40, and Psalm 16. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike takes a look at the dramatic moment when Joseph makes himself known to his brothers and weeps out of joy. Today's readings are Genesis 45-46, Job 37-38, and Proverbs 4:20-27.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. We continue reading today  Genesis 43-44, Job 35-36, and Proverbs 4:10-19. Fr. Mike highlights the transformation of Judah's heart and how his change shows us that we too can change regardless of our past. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike shows us how the faithfulness of Joseph in the Old Testament foreshadows the faithfulness of St. Joseph, the husband of Mary, in the New Testament. Today's readings are Genesis 41-42; Job 33-34 and Proverbs 4:1-9.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike continues reading through Genesis 39-40, Job 31-32 and Proverbs 3:33-35 and reflects on Joseph's righteousness as he walked with God .
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike talks about how God can bring great triumph from great brokenness as he reads the messy story of Judah and Tamar. The readings for today are  Genesis 38, Job 29-30, and Proverbs 3:28-32.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. 
The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike zeroes in on the dynamic between Joseph and his older brothers and shows us how the sin of envy is a distorted desire to be loved. Today's readings are Genesis 37, Job 27-28, and Proverbs 3:25-27.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike talks about how God accomplishes his will through us, in spite of our brokenness, and how he is always faithful to his promises. Today's readings are Genesis 35-36, Job 25-26, and Proverbs 3:19-24.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike dives into the love Jacob has for God, and how this is shown when Jacob meets Esau. Today's readings are Genesis 33-34, Job 23-24, and Proverbs 3:13-18.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike highlights the mysterious role suffering in Job's life as we continue journeying through Genesis 31-32, Job 21-22, and Proverbs 3:9-12.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike focuses on Leah's painful struggle trying to make herself lovable as we continue to read Genesis 29-30, Job 19-20, and Proverbs 3:5-8.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. 
The Bible contains adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.Fr. Mike compares the sacraments with Isaac's blessing to Jacob in Genesis 27-28, Job 17-18, and Proverbs 3:1-4.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike highlights the mystery of our brokenness and habitual sin as he unpacks the story of Esau selling his birthright. Today's readings are Genesis 25-26, Job 15-16, and Proverbs 2:20-22.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Today we read about story of Isaac and Rebekah's marriage and Fr. Mike reflects on God's constant providence in our lives, even when we don't see it. Today's readings are Genesis 24, Job 13-14, and Proverbs 2:16-19.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike explains the significance behind sacrifice of Isaac, and why God chose to test Abraham as he reads Genesis 22-23, Job 11-12, and Proverbs 2:9:15.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike reads Genesis 20-21, Job 9-10, and Proverbs 2:6-8 and shows us how we can strive for holiness, even in the midst of sin and suffering.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike breaks down the story of Sodom and Gomorrah today as we read Genesis 18-19, Job 7-8, and Proverbs 2:1-5. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Fr. Mike zeroes in on the theme of surrender as we discover how God changed Abram to Abraham and Job continues to struggle with his affliction. Today's readings are Genesis 16-17, Job 5-6, and Proverbs 1:20-33. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike talks about the significance of God's covenant with Abram, and how it points to God's immense love for us. Today's readings are Genesis 14-15, Job 3-4, and Proverbs 1:8-19. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike reads Genesis 12-13, Job 1-2, and Proverbs 1:1-7 and shows how Abram and Job, despite their brokenness, were able to trust in God.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Congratulations, you've completed the Early World period! As we journey into the Patriarchs period, Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike to set the scene. They discuss the themes of Genesis 12-50, how it differs from the first 11 chapters of Genesis, and how these passages slowly reveal God's plan to redeem mankind. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Today we read about the descendants of Noah, and the story of the Tower of Babel from Genesis 10-11, as well as Psalm 2. Fr. Mike reveals the errors of these characters, and how we also can fall into the same traps.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Today we read Genesis 7-9 and Psalm 1 and Fr. Mike reflects on the covenant God makes with Noah, and how the family of Noah becomes broken. Today's readings contain adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Fr. Mike reads Genesis 5-6 and Psalm 136, and explains the significance of Noah's genealogy, why God chose to send a flood, and how we can imitate Noah's choice to follow God when no one else did. 
Today's readings contain adult themes that may not be suitable for children - parental discretion is advised.
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. In today's readings of Genesis 3-4 and Psalm 104, Fr. Mike draws the connection between love and sacrifice in the story of Adam and Eve and explains the story of Cain and Abel. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.Welcome to Day 1 of The Bible in a Year! Today we start our year-long journey by reading Genesis 1-2 and Psalm 19. Fr. Mike Schmitz breaks down these readings to discover what the story of creation means for God's plan in your life. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear. Welcome to the official start of the Bible in a Year Podcast! We'll begin reading the Bible in the episode "Day 1: In the Beginning", but before we dig into scripture, Jeff Cavins joins Fr. Mike Schmitz to lay out the context for the Early World period (Genesis 1-11). They discuss the type of scripture we'll encounter (Hebrew poetry) and how that affects our understanding of the Word. This episode is not part of the 365 day reading plan, but is important to help understand the readings from this period. 
For the complete reading plan, text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear.In preparation for reading the Bible in a Year, Fr. Mike shares five tips for reading scripture that will help you better understand the Word of God. 
Before we begin this year-long journey, don't forget to get the 365 day reading plan! Text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777 or visit ascensionpress.com/bibleinayearFr. Mike Schmitz is joined by renowned Catholic Bible scholar Jeff Cavins, to talk about The Great Adventure Bible Timeline, their personal experiences with the Bible, and what it means to live life through the lens of Scripture. 
Learn more and get the reading plan at ascensionpress.com/bibleinayear or text CATHOLICBIBLE to 33-777. 
Get your copy of The Great Adventure Catholic Bible!